2788	2	1	1	?	Changing the type of grafin would improve the student's experiment give a better new at those data.   Give the names of each type of plastic type used in this experiment. Each plastic should be the same length.   My conclusion is plastic type held up a much stronger than all of the different types.
2789	2	3	3	?	Concluding from the students data that plastic type B was the stretchiest, while type A is the least stretchy. Two ways that the students could have improved their experiment is to have described how much height to use. Another way that they could have gotten more valid results is clarify how much plastic to use, hanging of the table.
2790	2	1	1	?	Two ways that the stundent could've improved the experiment is by getting a more better brand of plastic or simply redo the experiment.
2791	2	1	1	?	A conclusion I can make from this experiment is that plastic type B is the stretchable because in trial one it stretched 22mm,while in trial two it stretched 23mm without breaking. One way the student can improve the design is by adding more weights. A second way is to include more trials so there is more to compare to.
2792	2	3	3	?	a.One conclusion I can draw is that plastic B stretched the most than there was plastic D, the next plastic C and finally plastic A. b. They could have used more trials. Two trials is not enough to have a valid experiment. Next they could have said how long each plastic had to be. If there is more or less on one plastic then there could be more polymers making the experiment invalid.
2793	2	2	3	?	My conclusion to this experiment is that plastic sample B streched the most because it was pebbly a sample streches easily.  B) Two things that could be changed is saying what kind of plastic it was and saying hope much weight is put on each clamp.
2794	2	1	1	?	You can conclude that plastic B was the most maluble and was able to stretch the most while plastic A was the most rigid and least stretchable. Two ways the experiment could have improved was to also test for longer amounts of time, to see if time was a factor. Using different wights for different trials could also give out more beneficial data.
2795	2	2	1	?	By looking at the results, one can see that plastic type B and D stretched almost twice as much as the other two types. This shows us that B and D are most likely low density polymers because of their flexibility. A and C however are not as flexible and therefore are high density polymers. The experiment could have been improved by adding another plastic type or running more trials. The weights could have been changed also to test the strength.
2796	2	2	2	?	Material type A stretched the least, and material type B stretched the most. Material type B stretched about 12 mm more than A. A few ways the student could have the experiment is be could have gotten different length plastic to test it different ways. Also he could have added more trials and averaged them together to get more accurate results.
2797	2	3	3	?	a) A conclusion about this data is that plastic type A and B stretched longer the second trial and that type C stretched longer the first and D stayed the same. You can also conclude that plastic B has greatest stretchability. B) Two ways [the students could have improved the experimental are sign is that they could have done more trials to increase validity. They also could have used the same length of different plastics each time.
2798	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B is proven to be the most strehable material because it has stricthed to the greatest length which was 22mm and 23 mm. b. 2 ways to improve the experiment is there should be 2 trials and the size of each material before being stretched should be held constant.
2799	2	1	2	?	A) Based on the student's data, I can draw the conclusion that plastic type A is the most duriable because it stretched the least (an average of Mumm), while plastic type D is the least duriable.   B) To improve this experiment, the student's could have added a control and specified how much weight should be added to the clamp.
2800	2	3	2	?	Based on the student's data, plastic B stretched more. b The students could have improved the experiment by resting the plastics at the same length  also by doing more than just two trials using sam. Putting same amount of weight in the type of plastic bag.
2801	2	3	3	?	a) The students concluded that plates B was the most flexible, stretching up to 23mm on the second trial and 22mm on the first. b) The student could have improved this design and validity of his lab in two ways. First he could have done the experiment a third time to further confirm results. Second, the student could have been more descriptive in his procedure explaing how to add weight to the clamp and how much weight to actually add.
2802	2	1	2	?	Based on the students data, it looks like all 4 types of plastic stretched at least 10mm. The most amount stretched was 22mm for plastic type B then 20mm for D, 14 mm for c and 10mm for A.   To make the experiment more valid the student could perform more trials maybe using a different type of clamp or other weights to  test the plastic's flexibility.
2803	2	3	3	?	A conclusion that can be drawn from the students data is that plastic B has the most stretchability. Two ways this student could have imposed the experimental design and or validity of the results is. The students could have said what the initial length of the plastic was and keep all the others plastics at the same length because if one plastic was longer than the other the experiment would be valid. And they also say how much the weights that were being used weighed because one could be heavier than the other.
2804	2	2	2	?	A conclusion that can be made based on this experiment is plastic type D stretches the most, plastic type D stretches the second most, plastic C the third most and plastic A the least most. The students could have improved the validity of the experiment by including another trials. Also including what size or how heavy of a weight to use for in the experiment.
2805	2	0	0	?	A. Based on this student's data, I conclude that trial 2 was more effective.  B. One way the student could have improved the experimental design is give the names of the plastics they used.
2806	2	1	1	?	a) In conclusion, plastic type A is the strongest plastic and plastic type D is the weakest plastic because it streched the most.   B) the student should have made sure all the plastic lengths were equal. The experimenter should have also tested them all at the same time to get accurate data.
2807	2	3	3	?	As shown in the data table, I can conclude that plastic type B was able to stretch the most in the 5 minutes.  The table also shows that plastic type A stretched the least, concluding it was very strong or had less polymers. Two ways the students can improve their experimental design would be to make sure that all the plastic samples were the same length. Another way the students can improve the experiment would be to include the weights so an independent variable can be clearly stated or seen.
2808	2	1	1	?	a. Based on the students data I can conclude that T2 overall had better results that T1, for T1, A, B and C were all longer than T1.   3b. The student could have improved the experimental design and for validity of the results by specifying the amount of weight that was added to the clamps and the student should also have specifyed the plastics that were used to make a more valid point.   A-10, 12.   B-22, 23.   C-14, 13.   D-20, 20.
2809	2	0	0	?	The second trail the first two numbers are higher then the two in the first trail. One number lower than the first time and the number the same, one way the could improve there experiment is they could of made a graph with there results.
2810	2	1	2	?	The question in this experiment is how many weights did it take take for the plastic to inicate while measuring. The conclusion was that T2 was more of a success. One way the student could have improved was explaing how heavy each weight was and how best you should add each weight to the clamp. Another way they could've improved was using the exact type of plastic with the same measurements.
2811	2	3	3	?	(a) Plastic type "B" is made of the stretchiest material. (b) It does not say how many or how heavy the weights added are causing the results to be innacurate. Also, the length is not the same for any trials or type of plastic.
2812	2	1	1	?	Plastic type "B" contains the most elasticity. The could have explained was some of the different procedures were used for and to be more clear on explaining the procedure because when you explain a procedure you want to explain it in a way that any one can prefer in it.
2813	2	1	0	?	In conclusion, based on the students data collected, plastic type B was the farthest stretched. One way to improve the validity of their design to have different sizes of the plastic samples used. Another way to increase the validity is to get wide range of the different types of plastics.
2814	2	3	3	?	a) The plastic type B has the greatest stretchability out of the other 3 types.   b) The student should be clear about the length of each plastic to ensure that only independent variable is the type of plastic. Also, the student must determine the weight of the weights clamped on the plastic to keep one independent variable (plastic type). It is important to keep your constants, constant.
2815	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data it looks like they wanted to see if their type of plastic had an effect on how far it can stretch. Plastic type D must be hard plastic because for both trials one and two the plastic did not move 1 mm. The students could have improved their results by telling us how much weight they used. Without the amount of weight no one knows how much to use so our results will be different. Also, in step 1 the students did not say how long the plastic must be cut.
2816	2	1	1	?	I conclude, based on the data, that out of the four different polymer plastics, plastic type B was able to stretch the most mm, 23mm. Other plastic type such as A only stretched 12mm; plastic type C only stretched 13mm and plastic type b only stretched 20mm.
2817	2	3	3	?	A: Based on the data I can conclude that plastic B had the most stretchability it stretched 22 and 23 mm. C 14 and 13mm and D 20,20 mm were in between.   B. One way the student could have improved their experiment design is to clarify everything. What plastic, how long are they etc. They could improve their validity by doing three trials instead of two.
2818	2	1	1	?	Plastic type A seems to have been stretchy because it was stretched Ma while B and C only stretched Ma. And type D is not stretchy because the number stayed at 20mm. The student could have used something heavy doing with tape to hold it on the table in ease it came off and they could have also used something better than a clamp to stretch it.
2819	2	2	2	?	A. My conclusion is that, based on the data, plastic B has the most stretchability.   B. The student could have improved the experiment by doing a third trial, and if needed, a fourth. The student could also have repeated the process to find out why T1 data is different from T2 data.
2820	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B is the most stretchable plastic out of the 4 reaching 22-23mm. to improve this expierment the person doing the lab needs to know the weight of the weights along with the clamp that is serving as another weight.
2821	2	3	3	?	In conclusion, the polymer with the most stretchability is Polymer B in T1 and T2 polymer B had the highest number of mm out of the other polymers. There for it stretched the greatest amount. In the future I think it would be helpful for the students to record how much weight they used to test each polymer. I also think it would be beneficia to test more trials to be confident in the results.
2822	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B is more stretchable than plastic type A,C,or D because in trial 1 plastic B stretched 22mm and it stretched 23mm. In both trials plastic type B stretched farther than the rest. a) The student could improve the experimental design by being specific with what 4 polymers she was using, the student could improve validity of her results by concluding even more trials than just 2.
2823	2	2	2	?	(A) I concluded that plastic type B is the plastic with the best stretchability.   (B) One way the students could have improved the experiment is by doing more than two trials for each type of plastic. Another way the experiment could be improved is by doing trials with different amount of weights.
2824	2	0	0	?	In conclusion some would strech alot and same wouldn't. They could improve it by adding more clamp or by streching it more.
2825	2	2	3	?	A-In both trials plastic type b stretched the most. It stretched  22mm in trial one and 23mm in trial-one.   One way the students could have improved their experiment is have all the plastics the same length. Another thing could they could have done to put on the weights till it repeat.
2826	2	0	0	?	Some of the students do like measuring but also like using the data table to find out the stretched amount is in the chart.
2827	2	2	2	?	One of the many conclusions that can be drawn from this piece of data is that plastic "D" stretched the most and plastic "A" stretched the low. Two ways to improve this experiment is one, to add more trials, and two, describe the amount of weighs being added to the clamp. Thus piece of info is crucial.
2828	2	0	0	?	The two way the student could have improved the experimental design are why they put letters under plastic type is should be the type of plastic not A or B. My second way to improved the exeperimental design is the amount stretched (mm) is wrong because what is T1 and T2 where is the T3 if their three type of plastic.
2829	2	2	2	?	(A) Plastic type B is the stretchable plastic than type A, C, and D.   (B) Two ways the student could have improved the experiment is to make sure that each piece of tape is the same length because it may affect the stretchability of the plastic. Another way to improve the experiment is to add the same amount of weight to each plastic type because it may affect the amount stretched.
2830	2	1	1	?	Plastic type B is the polymer with the most stretchability. At the end of the experiment this is apparent because in both trials it stretched the most mm. Two ways to make the experiment better would be to leave the weights on for a longer period of time and also to add more weight on another was would be to make the experiment better would be to leave the heights on for a younger period of time and also to add more weight on. Another  way would be to use a double thickness of each material in evert trials.
2831	2	1	1	?	The conclusion that I draw based on the student's data is that plastic A streched the most. Two ways that the students could have improved their experimental design and or or validity of their results would be to test all the materials at least three times and to and to allow the weights to hang longer than five minutes. Testing all materials three times improves the student validity, because it becomes more accurate. Allowing weights to hang longer make it easier to see which material streches the most.
2832	2	1	0	?	a) After review of the results one can conclude that plastic type B as the most stretchable and durable this is because it had the highest mm stretch  distance for both trials.  b) the student could have improved the results validity by performing 2 more trials after 2 minutes. By giving the plastics time to recover he can either test the durability over time.
2833	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data, plastic type B stretched the most with 22 and 23 where as plastic type A stretched 10 and 12.   One way they could improve is as by making the size of the plastic constant. Another way thing could improve it is by making sure that when your letting it hang to stop it at exactly 5 minutes as you can keep the time constant too.
2834	2	0	0	?	The students conclusion of this trial would be, plastic type 4 produced 10mm of streching for T1 and T2 produced 12mm so it increased by Ma. Type B produced 12mm of strechability for T1 and 23mm for T2 for an increase of Ma. type 3 produced Mumm of stretch ability for T1 and 13mm for T2 decreasing by Ma. And lastly type D produced 20 mm of stretchability for T1 and 20 mm for T2. That's what a students conclusion would look like.
2835	2	1	1	?	2A)Based on the data, its possible that he's hypothesis was right, because the data seams close to each other, so there's a higher possibility tilth than wrong.    3) The could have made more trials including a control varable (one that doesn't change ) Another way as by adding more weights but do the procedure a little bat different.
2836	2	2	1	?	I have concluded that plastic B is the stretchiest and plastic A is the least stretchiest. A validity issue could have been leaving the weights on to long. Another validity issue could have been the measuring of the plastics was off.
2837	2	1	2	?	A) Plastic type B stretched the most after five minutes stretching 22mm in trial 1 and 23mm in trial 2. The plastic type that stretched the least was type A. It stretched 10mm in trial 1 and 12mm in trial 2. In conclusion the strongest polymer is type B.   B) The first way the student could improve on the experiment in a whole is tell what type of plastics were each. He also could tell how much weight was added during the trials.
2838	2	2	2	?	A. The plastic type B could stretch the longest at 22 and 23mm. Also the plastic type D is the only plastic that had the same length of 20mm for both trials.   B. Make a control having the clamp (without weight) be measured. Also they could've repeated the experiment by daily one more trial.
2839	2	1	1	?	a) Based on the students data, I can conclude that the amount each plastic type stretched at consistent rate during both trials.   b) The student could have improved the experimental design by specifying how much weight was being added to the plastic samples. They could've the validity of the experiment by trying different amounts of weight with each plastic sample.
2840	2	2	2	?	A. based on the results, I can conclude that plastic B stretched the farthest. In trials one and 2 it beat all others by at least a margin of two millimeters. B. One improvement they could've made is to any say length of each piece and make sure they were all equal. Another improvement could've been  to tell us the type of plastic for re-creature of the experiment.
2841	2	2	2	?	A conclusion based on the data is plastic type B is the longest stretching plastic used. Two ways they could have improved their experimental design  or  validity of their results by hanging the plastic sample in a different place, and by cutting all the plastic samples the same length because that was not stated in the procedure.
2842	2	1	1	?	I conclude that plastics A and C are a little stronger plastics than B and D because the both A and C stretched less than B and D.   Maybe 1 way to improve this is maybe wait a little longer until recording restarts because you might get a more interesting result. Another way to improve the validity of the answer to maybe test another time will get a third result making the answers more valid and presentable.
2843	2	0	0	?	a) A conclusion that could be drawn on their data is that on the plastic types C for T1 pool more than T2 and for plastic tyre D T1 and T2 had the same amount of stretched (mm).   b) They could have tested their experiment out longer and they could have used more interesting materials.
2844	2	1	1	?	A) Plastic A and B stretched down the same. Plastic C was not that stretched down at all. B.) Two ways the students could have improved their experiment would be to measure the plastic type before stretched down. They should have had tested the plastic in different times. For example. T1 in 5 mins, T2 in 10 mins, trial 3 Cumins, etc until 30 mins.
2845	2	1	1	?	Plastic types B, D are more stretchable than A, C.   They could do more trials and add more weights.
2846	2	2	2	?	a.) Based on the students data plastic type B stretched the farthest and therefor has the most stretchability. The one with the least stretchability was plastic type A. b.) One way the validity of the results could have done more trials. Another way the test could have been improved is by stretching the plastics by hand untill they break.
2847	2	1	1	?	If the students test out the four different plastic stretchability then add weights to the clamps on the bottom of the plastic and wait 5 minutes, they will come to the conclution that plastic that plastic B is the most stretchable plastic B's results the first time was 22 $ the second time 23. The second most stretchable is plastic D which was 20 then 20. So in closing the students found if they put weights on the 4 different type of plastic and wait 5 minutes then repeat that, plastic B is the most stretchable.
2848	2	2	2	?	(A) Based on the student's data, I can concluded that the plastic type A stretched the least with 10mm and 12mm. Plastic type B stretched the most with 22mm and 23mm.   (B) One way that the student could've improved the validity is to add more trials. Having at least 3 trials would have made this experiment more valid. Also, adding more time intervals instead of just one for five minutes would have improved this experiment.
2849	2	3	3	?	a. Based on the student's result, it can be concluded that plastic B is the most stretchable because it stretched an average of 22.5 mm in 5 minutes. Plastic A is the least stretchable because it stretched only 11 mm in 5 minutes on average.   b. 1. The student should have specified the amount of weight added to the clamp and possibly performed more trials at different weights. 2. The student should have performed a third trial to obtain more consistent and dependable results.
2850	2	0	0	?	On for in coud wont up on bown 14-13 on C the investigation be not be what A and B be.   A& D in not good two D bon't go up or bown so C and D is not good for the investigation.
2851	2	1	1	?	A) My conclusion from this experiment is that plastic type A is flexible. B is somewhat flexible, C as well and type D isn't flexible at all.   B) The students could improve by being more detailed in things, like the weight of the clamp itself and including a control of each plastic.
2852	2	3	3	?	The conclusion of this lab according to the students, data type B of the plastic is the weakest and type A of the plastic is the strongest. For the plastic C and D, they are inbetween and C is close to A. The student could have improved the experiment by; saying the measurement of the plastic and how much mass the was on earth peice of plastic. Another way to improve the experiment is making sure the temperature is kept constant and that no one touches the plastic.
2853	2	3	3	?	The experiment was very precise and contained multiple trials that proved to be similar to the previous one. Plastic type B appears to have stretched the farthest but it is impossible to tell seeing there are no starting lengths. The plastics as well as the weights should have been the exact same size.
2854	2	2	3	?	A. Based on this students data, I can come to a conclusion that plastic type B was the most streched.   B. Two ways the student could have improved is by recording the length of the plastic before stretching. Also the student should have tested it three times instead of two.
2855	2	0	0	?	The table characteristic property we formulate in the table because 10  and 12=22 and amount stretched (mm) T1 = total is 44 and T2=600 the total att ch 9 clamp to the bottom plastic sample.
2856	2	2	2	?	In this experiment I can conclude that plastic type B was the plastic that was  capable stretching the most. I can tell that plastic type A was the least able to stretch the most compared to other ones. Students can improve the design by having a control so that  they could compare results and makes experiment reliable. Also, in the procedure they should tell you how long the plastic should measure, how long the length should be.
2857	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type or polymer "B" had the best stretchability out of the other polymer plastics. The data shows that in "B"s both trials it stretched 22 and 23 mm farthest than any other plastic.   b) Two ways to improve the design are by doing more trials to be more accurate and by stating the amount of weight put on each bag (the same amount of weight).
2858	2	2	2	?	According to the data table plastic type B is the plastic that stretched the most without ripping. One way that the student could improve is in the procedure when it says add weights she should tell how heavy should the weights be. Also, she should tell what plastics were used.
2859	2	3	3	?	a. Based on the data on the table, I can conclude that plastic B was the stretchiest followed by plastic D, C, then A. His results also seem precise because he did two trials and they were totally close to each other every time.    b.  In the procedure, the student should have made each plastic sample the same size keeping it a constant variable. They also should explained how much weight to put on the clamps as it was omitted in the procedure.
2860	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the data plastic type "B" is able to stretch out the best compared to all other the different plastic types.   b) One way the students could have improved the experiment would be increasing the amount of trials.   Another way to improve the experiment would be to increase the amount of minutes it's left hanging. For example from 5 minutes to 10 minutes.
2861	2	2	2	?	The conclusion can be made that the plastic type B has the greatest stretchability because in both trials, is stretched the greatest number of mm in comparison to the other 3 plastic types. the student should have conducted at least 1 more trial to validate the experiment since 3 trials are necessary. For a valid experiment would impact the stretchability more tests and constants would make the results more reliable.
2862	2	2	2	?	a) You can see the trails were accurate to each other plastic B stretched the least (with the average Mumm).  b) the student could have improved the expierement by including the ongional measure of the plastic. They could have made the results more valid by keeping the weights on longer so there would be more variation between each result.
2863	2	2	2	?	This investigation shows that plastic B stretched the most but or are the plastics used in this experiment.   One way the investigation could be to add more trials, second, if they added more time then maybe the outcome would have changed.
2864	2	1	1	?	I can conclude that in trial 2 had a small impact on trial 1. The students could of improved adding the at same amount of weight to both type of plastics and keep that weights longer.
2865	2	1	1	?	a. Plastic B, C are almost similar but plastic D stretched the most.   b. Two ways they can improve experiment was by adding a 3rd trial and also adding different times.
2866	2	2	2	?	They could of improved it by putting their weight on them the same time and put the same amount of weight and had tried the object more than 2 times.
2867	2	1	1	?	Plastic Type C stretched the most in both of its trials and plastic Type A stretched the least in both of the trials. The students could have allowed the plastics to long longer than 5 minutes, incase it takes some plastics longer to stretch. The students also could have used plastics that all had the same length to begin with, to eliminate all chances of error.
2868	2	2	2	?	Plastic type A and B increased on the second trial while plastic type C decreased by Ma and plastic type D stayed the same mm both trials.   The students could have improved the design by conducting another trial to get accurate results. The students could have been specific on the weight of the weights. For example, add 1 pound weights to the clamp and allow them to hang for five minutes.
2869	2	0	0	?	The student could do better by describing it more how she did it and what she did, Add, subtracting, multiply, divide or something.
2870	2	1	1	?	a Based off the information given plastic type B stretched the most, the type D, type C, type A.   B. Place more weight and let it hang longer or less.
2871	2	1	2	?	Plastic D didn't change and plastic A stretched more in trial 2. Basically most of the plastics change but not all of them.   One way is making each plastic the same length before the experiment. A second way is use the same amount of tape for each plastic type.
2872	2	1	0	?	According to the student's data, the plastic that streched the most was plastic type D and the one that streched the least was plastic type A.   I think that this experiment could have been improved by instead of having a second trial, you should have added more time.
2873	2	2	2	?	From the data given to me, I can draw the conclusion that plastic type A is the least stretchable of the plastics probably because of it's tight bonding. Plastic D on the other hand is the most stretchable of the polymers (loose bonding). One way the student could have improved his results could have been a 3rd trial that would improve the validity. A second way to improve the validity of this experiment would be to ensure one self to have the same length plastic and time the experiment.
2874	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type B is the stretchiest plastic. In T1 it  Stretched 22 mm, and in T2 it stretched 23mm. The least stretched plastic was type A. In T1, A stretched 10mm and in T2 it stretched 12mm. Type D was second stretchiest and type C was behind D.   b) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design or validity of the experiment is having a specific size of the original piece of plastic to stretch, and having a specific weight of the weight stretching the plastic. Constant keep the results of experiment valid.
2875	2	1	1	?	One conclusion I made is that everytime in trial 2 it goes farther than in trial 1 the numbers increase. Two ways the student have improved on their experiment is by is by being more specific in their procedure and by adding a trial 3.
2876	2	1	1	?	2.)At the end of the experiment i have concluded that plastic B had the best stretchability because in 1 and 2 it reached 22 mm the first time and 23 mm the second time. My hypothesis was also wrong because I had predicted plastic A would have the most stretchability but it didn't.  (b)1.Put something heavier then weights. (2)Attach something other then a clamp.
2877	2	1	1	?	A) My conclusion based on the student's data is that T2 A-B held a stronger than for T1; C for T1 was the one more mm than T2 but both trials seemed out for plastic type D.   B) Two ways those students could have improved is if they kept the plastic the same size and shape. And if they let hang for a min longer.
2878	2	2	2	?	a. Out of all the plastic, plastic A is the stretchiest. Based on the data, it stretches 2 mm while the others stretched 1 mm or 0 mm.   b. To improve the experiment, the student could have used plastics that were all the same length to begin with. The student also, should've verified the weight of the weights they used and made alls they used the same weight throughout.
2879	2	2	2	?	A) In conclusion, plastic B had the most stretchability.   B) One way the student could have improved this experiment could be to start with the same length of plastic for each trial and each plastic. The second way I would change the experiment would be to use a stop watch and be very presice about the time.
2880	2	1	1	?	A.) The conclusion I have drawn about the students data table is that plastics A and B where stretchable. While C actually decrease in size and D did not stretch at all.   B.) Two ways that the student could improve this experiment is by naming the different plastics so you know your not looking the same kind of plastic that then once. Also to add more trials because they only held two.
2881	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B was the most strechably polymer. The student could have conducted more trails and tell us how much the weights weigh.
2882	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, you can conclude that plastic A streched the most. One way the student could have improved the experiment could be to have all of the plastics be the same size at the start of the experiment. Another way they could improve the experiment is to add a specific amount of weights in the clamp and have it be the same weight for each plastic.
2883	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B is the stretchiest based on their data.   b) It could have be improved by using plastics of the same length. He also could have taken different lengths of the same plastic.
2884	2	2	2	?	Plastic type A was the stretchiest. The student could have improved the validity of the results by doing more trials in the investigation, and by measuring the plastic prior to the experiment.
2885	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic B has the most stretchability. If you take the average of the two trials plastic B, 22.5 mm, is higher then plastic A, Mumm, plastic C, 13.5mm, and plastic D, 10mm.   b) One way the students could have improved the experiment is by giving a specific amount of weight to add to each clamp. Another improvement would be to do third trial because this could increase the validity.
2886	2	1	1	?	a. My conclusion would be that the plastic type B would be better because it stretched more.   b. One way the could have improved there experiment design would have been leaving on e of the plastic bags, with the weights the whole time ( control) types of plastic bags.
2887	2	1	1	?	Two ways tat the student could have improved was to let the weights hang there for a little more time. Also use the same length of plastic for each trial.
2888	2	2	2	?	A) Plastic type B is the one that has the most length.   B) The student could had put the plastic info equal pieces and, add the same amount of weights to the bags.
2889	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type B stretched the most, and plastic type A stretched the least.   b) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design are to specify the starting length of the plastic samples, and to specify the amount of weight added to each clamp.
2890	2	2	2	?	A. Plastic type A is the most durable plastic because in trial 1 it only stretched 10mm and in trial 2 it stretched 12mm, which was the least amount of stretching. Plastic type B is the most durable type of plastic because in trial 1 it stretched 22mm and in trial 2 it stretched 23mm, which was the most amount of stretching. The students could have improved their experimental design by stating how much weight they used for each trial because nobody knows how much weight they were using for each trial. Secondly instead of adding weight to the clamp, the should have just put the weight onto the plastic itself to get maximum stretch.
2891	2	2	2	?	Plastic sample C seems to be the least stretchy plastic because after testing it contracted.   1. Keep plastic sizes constant for each experiment.   2. Determine amount of weights added to the plastics from the clamp.
2892	2	1	1	?	Two ways they could've improved there expirament, would be that they couldve let the weights hang on the plastic for a little but longer, and that they shouldve used different types of bags. The conclusion was that plastic type B stretched the most out of all the other bags.
2893	2	0	0	?	Maybe he use the clamp to attach it before he add in the agredienta.
2894	2	2	2	?	Based on the data, one can conclude that polymer B is the stretchiest and polymer A is the least stretchy. One way that the students could have improved the experiment is by repeating the test with different amounts of weight that way several stretchability of the bags could be tested. Also, the students could have conducted more trials. The more trials there are the lower to the rise of error or accident.
2895	2	1	1	?	The conclusion is that in trials the student conducted it seems that in T2, the plastic stretched more than trial one. The student could change the experiment by telling you how much weight she put on each clamp. She could have taken away the second trial.
2896	2	3	3	?	a) My conclusion is that plastic B was the most stretchable plastic. It stretched out between 22-23 mm in the two trials.   b) The student could have stated how many weights he or she added. He or she also could have recorded the original lengths of each of the plastics he or she was measuring.
2897	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, plastic type B stretched the farthest with a measurement of 22mm for thal 1and a measurement of 23mm for trial 2.   They could have done more trials or let the clamp hang on the different plastics for a longer amount of time.
2898	2	2	1	?	a The conclusion is that one were smaller the another one large and in the end they both equal  b- One way to improved is experimental design is if they change the weights. Another way to improve this experiment if they try more trail there going to be better.
2899	2	1	1	?	A conclusion based on this experiment is plastic B was the most stretched to 22mm, then on the second trial A stretched 23mm. On the other hand plastic A, C and D was lower than 22 and 23mm both times.
2900	2	1	1	?	Out of all the four plastics, type B stretched the most. One way the student could have improved was to mention that there are four types of plastics rather than are in, step one. Another way the student could have improved was to make his or her data table more clear and accurate by adding a "time attached" column.
2901	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the data, you can conclude that polymer B had the most stretchability because it stretched the most trial one (22mm) and trial two (23mm).   b) To incate the validity of the experiment, the student could have include the amount of weight that was added to the clamp. This ways it would be added that the amount of weight was kept constant. The student also could have recorded two additional trials with more weights added.
2902	2	2	2	?	A.The average amount stretched for plastic type B was the most while the average amount stretched for plastic type A was the least  B.The experiment could have been improved by both. Increasing the number of trials for every time the lab is conducted .increasing the number of times the lab is conducted.
2903	2	2	2	?	a)In conclusion plastic type B is stretchier that the other plastics. Type B stretched the farthest thant the others in that 5 minute period.   B) The students could have let the plastics be stretched untill they broke to see which one was really the stretchiest and should have added the exact same weight for all the plastic types.
2904	2	2	3	?	Based on the data relieved plastic type c has streched the most compared to the other 3 plastic type C streched 22 mm for trial one and  23 mm for trial two. In both trial one and two plastic type C stretched the most.   One way they student can improve the validity of their results is by adding a third trial. Also, you can measure each type of plastic to be the same exact size, length, and width. By doing this it will make sure that the size of the plastic doesn't affect how much it streches.
2905	2	3	3	?	A0 I conclude that plastic type "B" has the highest amount of stretchability. Plastic B is able to stretch from 22 to 23mm. I can also conclude plastic "A" has the lowest stretchability at 10 to 12mm.   B) One way to make the investigation more valid is by having the length of each type of plastic be the same. Also the students need to make sure the plastic was taped the same way with the same tape. The students also need to use the same table for all four plastics.
2906	2	0	0	?	To improve this experiment the student should have mentioned the 4 different types of plastic if mentioned, it would give a more accurate reason as why one type of plastic is more or less stretchable than the other. Also, what the different plastics are made off. If we know that it may help us know why that plastic is, or is not more stretchy from another type of plastic.
2907	2	1	1	?	A) The plastics stretch about the same amount in Trial 1 and Trial 2 but the 4 plastics amount of stretch differs greatly.   B) The students could have done another trial or change the experiment up a little bit.
2908	2	2	2	?	Plastic B is stretchiest.  Used a control and ran more than 2 trials.
2909	2	2	2	?	a) based on the students data trial 2 had a greater amount of stretch remained the same number of 30min in both trials. B) The student could have improved the experiment by adding 2 trial 3 to ensure accuracy. Another way the student could have improved the validity of the experiments was to record the amount of weights added to the clamp in step 4.
2910	2	1	1	?	a)  Based on the data, both trials have the same stretchability.   b) The students could have stretched both plastics at the sametime. Also record how heavy, the clamps are.
2911	2	2	3	?	According to the student's data plastic type B was able to stretch the longest with 23mm. Type D was close with 20mm but types C and A were for less stretchy with Mumm and 12mm respectively. The student should have specified how long the plastic sample should be eat. The student should have also specified how much weight was added to the clamps. For all I know, he would have used random lengths and weights for each trial so he should have been clearer in the procedure.
2912	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data, plastic type B stretched the most. However, the student could have improved the experimental design and validity of these results. First off, Their should be a required standard length for each type of plastic the directions could be like. "step 1" cut a Home strip of each plastic". Also, this experiment should specify the amount of weight placed on the clamp and this exact amount should be repeated throughout the rest of the experiment.
2913	2	1	0	?	A) From the table shown you can conclude that plastic type B in this investigation could stretch the farthest meaning it is the strongest of all the dffent types because it stretched 22mm and 23mm.   B) 1) Could have said how much weight to start with each time putting diffent stress levels on the plastics. 2) Told how long to keep the weight on beforeadding on more because this could cause a change in strength or stretchability.
2914	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data I can conclude that plastic B stretches the most out of all the plastics.   b.) two ways the students could have improved this experiment is by being specific about the length of each piece of plastic. Another way they could have improved the experiment is by repeating the experiment.
2915	2	0	0	?	a) The plastic did in fact stretch only in to 23 mm   b) The student could have used more weights on the second trial, or maybe on the second trial let it beng longer.
2916	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data, we could see that plastic Type B was the polymer that stretched the most for both trials, they had a longer length than all of the others of 22mm and23mm. One way the student could have improved the experimental design could have been to note on the graph how long the polymer was before it was stretched.
2917	2	1	1	?	The plastic type D is stretched the same amount in both trials. One thing they could of improved on is they should have have 3 trials not just 2.
2918	2	3	3	?	(A) Based on the data shown in the experiment plastic B had the most stretchability and plastic A had the least stretchability.   (B) They could have improved their experiment by 1. starting out with the amount of weight for each plastic and 2. They could have performed one more trial to make sure their results were correct.
2919	2	1	1	?	If we streched 4 different types of plastics, then the second plastic (plastic D) would strech the farthest.   Two ways the students could improve the experimental design and for validity of the results are naming the plastics to know which one is which so the data will not get mixed up. Also doing more than 2 trials. Another trial might helped the data.
2920	2	0	0	?	Well they improved by making the right design and following the right instructions.
2921	2	1	1	?	Based on the results shown, plastic B has the highest stretchability. After adding weight to the plastic for 5 minutes it showed that plastic B streched the most, 22 and 23 mm. Next in high stretchability comes D, C then A. Even though this experiment was good there are two ways to improve the experimental design. I think they should have tested how different weights effected each type of plastic. I also believe that there should be a controlled group, one with no weight to compare the results of adding the weights.
2922	2	3	3	?	(A) I think that the plastic type A was the strongest because it stretched down the least. Plastic type B was least strongest because it went down the most.   (B) The student could included more trials to add validity. The student could have also included how much weight was being added to the plastic.
2923	2	2	3	?	You can came to a conclusion that plastic type B was the most stretchable for trial one it got 22mm and for trialz it got Mumm compared to the others that only got in the teens but 0 got 20mm both trials.
2924	2	3	2	?	Based on the students data, I can conclude that plastic type A is the most durable.  Two ways the student could have improved this experiment would be to clearing how much weight was added to each plastic and to measure the plastic before he or she stretched it.
2925	2	2	2	?	a.) Polymer B has a higher streethability cuts that all the other plastics tested.   b.) The students can able more trials to their experiments. Also, they can clarity what type of plastic tins being used.
2926	2	2	2	?	a. Plastic type B was the stretchiest, while A stretched the least.   b 1.) Make sure the plastics were all the same length.   2.) Measure the plastics during the process of stretching.
2927	2	2	2	?	Plastic A  and  B stayed stretched from the T1 and then streched more in T2. C went down so it probably gets shorter as you wear it out I guess. D stayed the same.   They should of added the amount of weight the attached to each plastic. They should of said how much the clamp weighed.
2928	2	3	3	?	A conclusion made from the students data is that different plastics' length are affected by wieght in their own ways; staying the same , growing , or shortening. The students could have been more specific by writing down how long each plastic has originally before the the 2 trials. They also could have been more detailed about how much weight ,they were adding to the plastic.
2929	2	1	1	?	A- In conclusion, plastic type "B" streched the most. The data says, it streched 22mm on trial one and 23mm on trial 2.   B- One way the student could change the procedure, is allow them to hang for 10 min instead of 5 minutes. Also they could change it up by, changing the weights every time.
2930	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the data shown on the table, I would say that plastic type B has the most amount stretched.   b) The first way is would of presented the result better and have more trails. Second it says allow them to hang fro five mins it should ve been 10-15 mins, 5mins does nothing.
2931	2	1	1	?	A. Plastic A is stretched the bigest throughout the experiment while plastic D shoved no change B.   The student could have improved the validity by adding more traits because the plastic. would have stretched larger if there were more trials and also add constants because if more things are the same throughout the experiment then the results would be more valid.
2932	2	1	1	?	According to the data provided, this experiment had roughly the same outcomes in trial 1 and trial 2. It's either one number higher or lower in trial 2. But, where're two ways that this experiment could be improved. One, explain what type of plastics are being stretched. Two, say how much weight is going to be added to the clamps.
2933	2	1	1	?	A. Plastic B stretched the most. Plastic A was the strongest out of all.   B. They should have added more weights to see which would have stretched the most and which would be stronger.
2934	2	2	1	?	Based on the result of the experiments we can conclude that plastic type B has the greatest elasticity of the four plastics. One way the students could have improved on their experiments is to run a third test. Adding another test should show they would get result similar too the first two tests.
2935	2	2	2	?	a) Concluding from the students data, plastic type A is the strongest plastic C is the least strongest, is the third, and b is the least durable. b) The student could have improved this experiment is by doing at least one more trial. They could have made a cooled and warmly the dependent or  independent variables to ran to this experimental design are vareid.
2936	2	2	2	?	a) In conclusion the plastic type B stretched the most in both trials. It's the stretchiest.   b) The student could of stretched it by two students holding both sides and simply pulling with weights on it. They could of repeated the procedure one more time. They should of had a control grap.
2937	2	2	1	?	A) A conclusion that I have concluded from the data table is: plastic type "B and D" were stretched the most leaving type "A and C" being the most durable types of plastic.  B) Two ways that the students could have improved there experiment design or  or validity are: more trials for more accuracy. And more plastic types to experiment with to actually find out which one is the most durable.
2938	2	1	1	?	A) My conclusion based on the students data is that plastic type A is the one that stretches the most.   B) Two things the student could of did to make his experiment better is, one tell us how much the weights weighed and two tell us the plastic types of polymer be used.
2939	2	2	2	?	I conclude that plastic type B would be the best plastic for stretchability, because in both trials plastic B is the one that stretched the farthest. In trial 1 it stretched 22mm, and trial 2 it stretched 23mm. The student could have improved the validity by giving specific measurements for size of plastic so laura are all equal. The student also could have sold to use the  plastics when they were all the same day the agesa that are isn't older or weaver than another plastic.
2940	2	2	2	?	(A) Based on the students data a good conclusion to make is that plastic B was the strongest.   (B) Some ways the student could have improved the experimental design would be they should of said how much the weight weighed. Also they could of done more trials to make the experiment more valid. Also how much did the clamp weigh to make it more accurate results.
2941	2	1	1	?	a) I conclude that plastic B has the highest tensile strength. B) They could have said how much weight to add. As well as add a different amount of weight for the second trial (preferrably a higher amount).
2942	2	1	1	?	polymer A is a more hard and less makeable plastic which would been it would be like a 1 on 3 plastic D is really makeable and stretch so it would be a politer polymer. They could improve on the design. By may be using, more weight so they get more stretch and see its limits and way it  stretches because so polymers stretch in different directions. They would do one more trial to get more data and make it more valid.
2943	2	3	2	?	A. Based on the students date, I can conclude that plastic type B is the most flexible at all the samples.   B. To improve their experimental design, the students could have added more trials and also specified how much weight to add.
2944	2	1	1	?	My conclusion is that plastic type A has the least stretchability and plastic type B has the most stretchability compared to both trials. One way to have improved the experiment design would have been to add weights and let them hang foe ten minutes for the second trial and perform more trials with longer times with weights on the plastic.
2945	2	2	2	?	The student could say how much weight he used. Also increase the weight in the second trial. They should also perform the trial atleast 3 times to increase the validity of the results the students must also increase the time of hanging process.
2946	2	3	3	?	The measures of every plastic should be the same to start. Secondly, there should be a precise amount of weights being added. My conclusion is that type B stretched the most. It was easily the longest.
2947	2	3	3	?	The student can conclude that polymer plastic B is the most strechability because it has the longest length in both trials.Two ways this experiment could  have been better is by saying how much weight to add to each plastic polymer and second by repeting the experiment more than twice.
2948	2	3	3	?	I conclude that plastic type B stretched the most. One way the students could have improved the  experiment design and  or  or validity of the results is to make sure all the plastic types start out at the same length. Another way is to have a certain amount of weights for all the plastic type trials.
2949	2	3	3	?	a) No conclusion can be drawn from this experiment because the length of the plastic before the weights are added we not listed. Therefore you can no see wich plastic stretched the farthest.   b) Two was they can improve the valitity of this experiment are 1. list the length of the plastic before its stretched and 2. state how much the weight weigh and if they all the same.
2950	2	3	3	?	(a) Based on the students data, I can conclude that plastic type B was the most stretchable. This is because it was stretched more than the other plastic after 5 minutes in both trials for example, plastic B stretched 22 mm in the first trial but plastic D the next most stretchable only stretched 20 mm. The students could have improved the experiment adding more trials. This would make their experiment more accurate because they will have more both to use their by. They should have also tell how many weights to add at a time, so that they, and whoever else does this experiment remains constant.
2951	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, the trials for each of the different plastics were very similar and showed no significant chang in how much the plastic stretched. Two ways to be more specific on exactly how much weight is to be added to the clamp. Also the student should include how big each plastic sample should be, because if they used four different size samples the results would be inaccurate.
2952	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B stratas the furthet out of the other three what happens to plastic. When i get low to the ground. How much weight do they put to the end of these plastic.
2953	2	2	2	?	A) Plastic type B has the most stretchability out of them all. Type D has the second most type C has the third mast and type A has the least.   B) One way the experimental design could be improved is by saying how much the weights weigh. Also, it would have been better if they averaged both trials together also.
2954	2	3	3	?	2 Plastic type B can stretch the most without bearing to.  The students could have conducted more trials (which could have improved the experimental design and validity). The students also should have specified the weights of each weights and the clamp so if someone were to repeat the experiment, they would known how much weight to add.
2955	2	1	1	?	a) The percentage of the amount the plastic stretched was alot lower in the second trial than in the first.   b) They could have done more trials. They could have used more polymer plastics.
2956	2	1	1	?	Plastic type "B" has the most stretchability after trials 1 and 2.
2957	2	2	1	?	I drew a conclusion based on the students data that plastic type B stretched out the most in mm for both trial one and trial turn. One way the students could have improved their experimental design is that they could've informed us what type of plastics were being tested like; garbage bag, freezer bag and sandwich bag. Another way the students could've improved their experiments by how many weights did they put in for each plastic bag they stretched out.
2958	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data you can conclude that plastic B is more durable than the rest of the plastics tested. Also that plastic A was the least durable out of the plastics. One way the students could improve their experiment is if they have at least 3 trials instead of just 2. Another thing the group could do to improve their experiment is to identify the independent and dependent variables in their procedure.
2959	2	2	2	?	A. My conclusion to the polymet investigation is that plastic be is more likely to stretch the longest in five minutes.   B. They experiment could had been improved if they added more trials to show consistency  or change in the experiment. Another way to give a  hypothesis to show if you predicted wright or wrong.
2960	2	3	2	?	a) Based on the data given, I can see that plastic A is the strongest polymer and doesn't have much stretchability.   b) To validate her results, I think the student should have put how long the plastic was originally and how many millimeters long it was after the weights to see the actual data for ourselves. The student could tested the plastic a third time to improve her experiment.
2961	2	1	1	?	A. To conclude, polymer plastic B has the higest strech in meters.   B. Add different weights.   See which is more durable or stonger.   Clamp each differently.
2962	2	3	3	?	A conclusion that can be drawn is that plastic type B is the most flexible plastic and can stretch the farthest. The student could have improved their experiment by stating how heavy the weights were that were attached to the clamp. Right now, one can only guess what weight that was. Another way the student could have improved their experiment is by stating the original length of all the plastics, cutting them all to a certain length would improve the validity of the experiment because it would show plastic B actually stretched the farthest and did not just showed off changes.
2963	2	3	3	?	From the data given, I conclude that plastic B had the most strech ability and plastic A had the least. Two ways this experiments could be improved is by using the same size plastic for each type of plastic and by stating how many  he used.
2964	2	1	1	?	a) Two out of the four plastic types lengths increased.   b) First  the students should have more trials and allow the weights to hang more than five minutes on to the clamp.
2965	2	2	2	?	In each trial (both 1 and 2) the amount stretched increased steadily and ended at the same amount. Two ways the student's could have improved there experiment was by saying how much weight to put on the clamps. Another way to improve the experiment was, to say how far, would they have wanted the weight and clamps to be (far down or far up).
2966	2	3	3	?	A) Plastic sample B was the stretchiest because it's greatest length was 23mm.   B) They should have measured the length of the plastic before they stretched it so we can know how much it stretched. They also should have run more than two trials so we can be absolutely sure of their results.
2967	2	3	3	?	a. Based on only the data shown one can conclude that plastic the most stretchability out of all the plastic tested because it stretched the most during the experiment one can also assume that plastic type A has the least stretchability because it stretched the least during the experiment. One way that the experimental design could have been improved, is to have controlled the original lengths of all the plastics and make them equal. Another way to have improved the experimental design is to have included the exact weight that was being applied to the plastic.
2968	2	0	0	?	A. Some plastics are more stenchy or maybe some of them are harder than the other brands.  B. They could of put the time period a little longer. Also for T2 they could of put more weight than T1.
2969	2	3	3	?	A)In conclusion, plastic type B has stretched the most probably not the most dependable material. The best plastic type would be A. Plastic type A can withstand the most support of weight in the bag so you don't have to worry about it ripping.   B) These students should have conducted a third trial. It would have made for finding a better average of stretching on the plastic type. Also explain how much weight was stretching these plastic bags.
2970	2	1	1	?	The conclusion that I have drawn is that plastic type D stretched the most which makes it more durable than the rest. Two ways he could have improved was by telling us how much weught was added and by telling us he averaged out the three plastic samples strechness.
2971	2	1	1	?	a) The total amount of T2 is greater than T1.   b) All lengths should be the same and every step should be equal to the others.
2972	2	0	1	?	From the students data from conclude that type D is most stretch able and that type A is the least stretchable. This lab couldn't been improved by saying to record the measurements in steps 7 and 5. Also by taking what until to measure with, in steps 7 and 5.
2973	2	1	1	?	The number incress for T2 most of the time.   Do another trial.
2974	2	3	3	?	A) From the table results for the experiment, you can conclude that type B was the most stretchable out plastic and type A was the strongest at holding together, the polymers and cross linking made it strong.   B) She could have improved the experiment by allow more trials and making sure the plastic samples were the same size and length.
2975	2	2	2	?	a) The polymer plastic withe biggest stretchability was type B because it stretched over 22mm. b) The students should have measured the amount of mm the plastic stretch while the clamps were still on. Also the students should have used plastics of all the same length.
2976	2	2	2	?	a) In conclusion, different polymer plastics do have different stretchabilities, some polymers, such as B and D , are much more stretchable than polymers such as A and C.  b) The student could have improved this experiment by specifying the amount of weight used, and how far to let them hang. Also, the student should have specified how to calculate the amount of polymer stretched.
2977	2	2	2	?	a) In conclusion plastic type B in trial 1 and trial 2 stretched more then plastic type A, C, and D.  b) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design or validity of the results are they could of tested more times to get better results, and they could of let the weights stay in the bag a bit longer before removing them.
2978	2	2	2	?	It has been confirmed accordind to the data in the table, that plastic type B can be streched out the longest compared to plastic types A,C and D. Plastic type B reached length of 23mm which is the highest length measure in the table. Two ways the student can improve there design  or  or validity of their results is by collecting more data and creating more trials to get a more accurate result.
2979	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, plastic type D stretched the most for both trials so that would be the one to choose when looking for the most stretchable. The first way the student could have improved the experiment is by doing a third trial. The second way the student could have improved the experimental design is by making sure all the clamps and weights are the same and are hanging for exactly the same amount of time.
2980	2	3	3	?	a) When stretched plastic B seemed to be weakest and stretch the most as where plastic A seemed strongest.   One way is to have equal size plastics to start with. Another way is to say exactly how much weight needed to  be added to each,
2981	2	3	3	?	The conclusion that can be drawn from the data done in that plastic type B. stretched the most, which was 21mm in T1 and 22mm in T2. One way the student could've improved the experiment is to add another trial. Also by using the same weight to weights.
2982	2	2	2	?	(a) Based on the student's data, plastic type b was more, flexible and susceptible to stretching. Plastic type A was most likely a harder or thicker type of plastic, making it more difficult to stretch.   (b) To improve the experiment and validity  of the results, the students could have run more than two trials so they had more to compare. They also could have included "record results" in their procedure.
2983	2	2	2	?	My conclusion will be that with the added weight, the plastics stretched.   To make this trial more reliable the student should have stated how long and wide each plastic should be. The students should have also stated how much weight should be added to the plastic.
2984	2	3	3	?	A: Based on the student's data, plastic B is the most stretchable polymer plastic and plastic A is the least stretchable.   B: One way the students could improve their experiment is to perform more than just two trials to ensure their data is valid. Another way they could improve their experimental design is to specify how it tape the plastics so as to make sure their are all taped and pulled the same way.
2985	2	2	2	?	The student's data shows that the plastic types are stretchable. Two ways the students could have improved the experiment is by writing its first starting length and for another improvement they could have one a third trial to rest if their experiment is true.
2986	2	3	3	?	The plastic that the most stretchability is plastic B, probably due to the fact that all of the polymer links are parallel to each other, and it stretched an average of 22-23mm. 2 ways that this could have been improved is having a 3rd trial, and using the same length for each sheet or plastic.
2987	2	2	2	?	a.)Plastic type D was able to stretch farther, so based on that result I conclude it was able to withstand more weight.  (b)Two ways the student could of improved the validity of the result are use the same size of plastic for all trials and types, and add another trial to combine results.
2988	2	1	1	?	50% of the plastics stretched farther and the second time, 25& did worse the second time and a 5% did the same.   A third trial might help and explain what the if plastics were.
2989	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B has the most stretchability. One way that this could have improved is if the students did another trial to make sure that their experiment was valid. Another thing the students want to do is make sure they have the same size of plastic to start with.
2990	2	2	2	?	Is conclusion, plastic B stretched the most and plastic A stretched less.   The student could've retested a 3rd time and state wat he was trying the acomplizb
2991	2	3	3	?	A, In this experiment the plastic B stretched the most because it went 23mm and A went 12mm and 13mm and D 20mm. B. They could have improved there experiment by doing more trials, and have the plastics of the same lenghth.
2992	2	2	3	?	a)- A conclusion would be that plastic type A could withstand the most weights with out being stretched the most.   The first thing they could do to improve their experiment would be to use a specific # of weights and clamps. The second thing would be to increase the number of trials.
2993	2	0	1	?	Based on the data collected from the experiment you can conclude that plastic type D stretched the most. Validity: The students did two trials and their results from the second tool were very similar to the first trial. One way the student could of improved the experiment is adding more weight to see if they could of stretched further. Another way to improve the experiment is by using more then one type of plastic.
2994	2	1	0	?	a). Plastic D and plastic C are not that good. The two types that increased type A and B.   b). They should'nt have taped it to a table. There should have been 2 people holding it from both sides. Also I think they should have measured in inches.
2995	2	1	0	?	Type A plastic stretched the most.   Attach the plastic to the side of the table in a more effective way, and provide the names of the plastics rather than giving them variables.
2996	2	2	1	?	A conclusion I can draw from the data is that plastic type A had stretched more in T2 than the rest, the others were only one mm apart while plastic type A, had a difference of Ma. One way the students can improve their experiment is by having the plastic the same length in the beginning and the second way is by adding how many weights it took so the plastic would stretch.
2997	2	3	3	?	In conclusion, plastic type B stretched the most in both trials.   One way the student could have improved the validity is to cut each plastic to the same length. Another way to improve the experiment design is to specify how much weight to add to the clamp.
2998	2	2	1	?	I would conclude that the plastic T2 to more stenchy than T1. It could be improved quite a few way frist off it was never stated how much wight is being added or if it was the same each time or the fact that.
2999	2	2	2	?	a.) The most stretchable polymer was polymer D, where it stretched 20 mm both trials (also making it the most reliable as it's stretchability didn't fluctuate).   b.) One way they could've improved the experiment is by specifying what the weight of the weights added to the clamp were (and how many) to ensure that all polymers were tested the exact same way. Second, they could have a third, or even fourth trial to their experiment to increase validity of the experiment.
3000	2	0	0	?	The conclusion would be that the plastic in trial2 was stretchies for the most part trial 1. Two ways they could have improved this experiment would be to repeat the procedure with different plastic and put it at different temperatures.
3001	2	3	3	?	Plastic type A stretched the least out of all 4 plastics, leading to a conclution that it has the worst stretchability of all 4 plastics. Plastic type B stretched the most for both trail test 1 and 2 enough info to conclude that B has the best stretchability.   The students could of improved their experiment by adding in the procedure exactly what was the weight of the weights they used and they could of performed a 3rd trail test to see if results were continues and never changing.
3003	2	1	1	?	a)According to the data shown, plastic type D has the most stretchability.  (b)The student could have done more trials, made a line graph, and tested the plastics for different times.
3004	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data the amount that has been stretched finally didn't make a difference because som when up by 1 and 2 and some just shod the same. One way the student could have improved their experiment design is telling us how many weights to add to the clamps.
3005	2	1	1	?	After reading the data I have concluded that plastic type B is the stretches. One out of four types. I concluded that type b is the best because when you add up the numbers from T1& T2 for each number type B has Mumm. So it is the longest on.
3006	2	1	1	?	a. The plastic that stretched the greatest has the plastic type B. Almost more than half the plastic types had stretched more the second trial.   b. This student should label the names of the plastic, not just, A-D.
3007	2	3	3	?	The conclusion that can  be drawn,based on their data, is that that plastic type A was the  least stretchable and is the most durable and plastic type B is the most stretchable and the least durable. One way they could've improved their experiment is to have each plastic type have the same amount of length for each piece because that could affect the stretchability of each plastic. Another improvement could be that they could've specified how much plastic should be hanging from the table so each plastic has same amount of length.
3008	2	3	3	?	A. In conclusion Plastic B was the best because it had the highest amount stretched for both trials in the first it stretched 22 while A,10, C 14, D 20 the second trial that it went up a mm to 23 while A,12,C,13, D 20.   One way they could improve the validity is more trials your experiment will only get more valid with more trials. The second way is to be more specific with what trials with what kind of tape, how much tape your using and were you measuring from weather it's the whole thing or just the part hanging.
3009	2	2	2	?	A) In conclusion, my hypothesis was right. The plastic ended up ripping due to the fact that the weight was hanging on it. The independent variable was the plastic and the dependent variable was the weight.  B) The students could have improved the experimental design by having the weight the same for every trial. Also there should have been more than two trials.
3010	2	1	1	?	I conclude that plastic type D was able to stretch topmost out of all of the plastics. The two things these students would have done to improve ther validity and experimental design is they could have used more trials and they also could have used a control
3011	2	0	0	?	Plastic type A was the strongest. The student could have made it before and after instead of Trial 1 and Trial 2. They also could have named the different type of plastics.
3012	2	1	2	?	A conclusion that can be drawn from the students' polymer investigation would be that plastic type A was the strongest plastic used. It took the least amount of stretches although it had gained two stretches on the second trial. Two ways the students could have improved their experiment are that they could have increase the amount of plastic types and include more trials of testing the different plastics.
3013	2	3	3	?	The data provided concludes that plastic type "B" stretched the most. One way the student could improve the validity of this experiment would be to state the weight of the weights that are to be added onto the pieces of plastic. One thing the student also should have done was to have recorded the original lengths of the plastic samples so you could see just how much the pieces of plastic streched from their original lengths.
3014	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, the students data table is base on that plastic type B in both trail had most streched. The students could have improve more if they add other trail and added on control.
3015	2	0	0	?	For one the student could of use two wheights instead of one. And also use a deferent method for example instead of hanging the bowls from the table hang them up from a high place.
3016	2	1	1	?	Plastic D has no stretchability. It stayed the same both trial kinds.   The students could of improved there experiment by putting a time for trial 2. Also giving an exact amount of weight that should be added to the plastic.
3017	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data; plastic type B has the highest stretchability at Mumm stretched, while plastic type A would be the worst at only 22mm stretched.   Two ways the students could have improved their data are, one; They could say how heavy the weights were and maybe allowed them to hang on the clamps for more than 5 minutes. Two; They could have had more than 2 trials.
3018	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data I can tell that plastic type B was the most stretchable. I see this because in his results plastic B had the greatest amount in kilometers stretched. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design and validity of the results was by giving the initial length of the plastics and each plastic should have had a constant length.
3019	2	0	0	?	Conclusion, the tape has stretched more because of the weight level has a high level of density. To improve, they should make a bar graph.
3020	2	1	1	?	a) A conclusion based on the student's data that I can draw is the Plastic all stayed around. The same amount stretched from T1 to T2 if any thing it was Ma or Ma of the first TI.   B) Two way the students could have improved the experiment design or or validity of the results was to do more than one way to stretch the bags, and to do 3 trails each.
3021	2	0	1	?	To conclude, plastic type B stretched more in trial 2. It stretched 23mm, the plastic that least stretched was plastic type A. It only stretched 12mm for trial 2 and 10mm for trial 1. This means plastic B is the strongest and plastic A is the weakest, also plastic D stayed constant for trial 1 and 2.
3022	2	3	3	?	A conclusion based on the student's data is plastic type B is the most amount stretched and plastic type A was the least amount stretched. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design is be more informative on the size sample you must take. Also the amount of weights you add one.
3023	2	2	2	?	In conclusion to the student's expirements, each plastic had stretched more or less the same amount of the first trial. Plastic B was the most stretchable. An improvement the students should have made was make each piece of plastic the same length before stretching. The students could have improved the validity by showing the length of the plastic before it was stretched to measure exactly which plastic stretched more.
3024	2	0	0	?	The two ways the student could have improved experimental design out or or validity of the results are.Procedure:4) Add weights to the clamp and allow them to hang for five minutes.If you do that you doing to know plastics is stronge and can carry a havy thing. 5) Remove the weight and camp and measure the length of the plastic types. After you remove the weights and cound how many weight they can early stuff in the plastic.
3025	2	1	1	?	A conclusion drawn is that the results were fully accurate and had little change during the second trial. The students could have included a diagram to give a better picture of how the experiment should look like and a good info and results have at least 3 trials. So the students should have done another trial and drawn a diagram.
3026	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data, plastic type B was consistently the stretchiest of all the plastic types used in the experiment. One possible validity issue is the description of the weights added to the clamp in each trial. The procedure does not tell in how much weight must be applied and thus a person may apply uneven amounts of weight dipending on the trial and plastic. This would cause the experiment to have the uniformity of its data in the fact that the weight was not constant. Also, the student could have improved the experimental design by adding more trials to the experiment and in turn gaining more data to make the results more accurate.
3027	2	3	3	?	According to the data table it looks like the plastic type B was stretched the most and plastic A was stretched the best. B. One way the experiment could have improved is if they said what the measurement of the plastic was before the weights were on it. Another thing is they have said how much the weight was that hung on the plastic.
3028	2	1	1	?	Based on the data  shown, plastic type 'D' seems to be the most durable. The table shows that it did not stretch. The student could have improved validity by doing more trials, and repeating the experiment more than once incase any error wes made during the first run through of the test.
3029	2	1	2	?	The students could have improved their design or results by measuring the weight of the clamp without the weights attached and they could have done a third trial.
3030	2	2	2	?	a) The conclusion is that plastic type A streched the least (Mumm) compared to the other plastics. Plastic type B stretches the most (22.5).   b) Two ways that the student could have improved his experiment was to do at least three trials to get a more accurate results. Another way could have been streching the plastics for more than five minutes, to make the results more accurate.
3031	2	1	1	?	A) The data from this investigation shows that the plastic stretched the furthest was type B Next was type D, then type C, and finally type A. The information shows they did two trails to make sure they have correct information.  B) One way the student could have improved this experiment design was to make steps and to explain the procedure more. Next, I would say to make a graph would be the best way to further improve these results.
3032	2	2	2	?	A conclusion based on the student's data would be that plasic D has the most stretchability. One way the student could have improved the experiment would have been to show the things kept constant. For example how much weights were used and how long has each piece of plastic. Another way the student could have improved would have been to include a control to compare to. For instance one plastic with no weight.
3033	2	2	2	?	I think that plastic type B is the best because it stretched the farthest in both trials.   They should've been more specific with whic four types of plastics they should have used and they should have said exactly how many weights to put on it.
3034	2	3	3	?	b. The student should use all sample plastics of the same length so the strength and stretchability can be determined. The student should have also done atleast one more trial to eliminate possible experimental error.   a. From the experiment, plastic type B came to be the most stretchable. Plastic type D was also very stretchable and the second stretchiest, plastic type C came after B, and after C, came plastic type A. Plastic A was the strongest but plastic B was the stretchiest.
3035	2	1	1	?	A. In conclusion based on the students data, T1's plastics where a little bit weaker the T2's.   (B) One way a student could have im proved the experiment is by adding more length to the plastics.   Another way to improve the experiment is by trying more trials.
3036	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data, plastic B stretched the most with 22, and 23 mm in their trials respectively. However, the student cold've recorded the starting length and the difference in length, as from this data the reader doesn't know if these results are comparative. In the procedure, the first step is measuring the length, but i don't see that data. Another improvement wold be more trials.
3037	2	3	3	?	a) The students conclusion is that although plastic D was the most accurate, plastic B stretched the most for both trials.   b) The procedure does not say the amount  or  what unit of weight was added. The plastics also must all be the same length.
3038	2	3	3	?	One conclusion that can be based off the student's data is that plastic type B has the most stretchability out of all of the plastics tested.One way this student can improve the experimental design is to add more trials to the experiment. Another way is to set the length the plastic should be because having different plastic lengths can cause experimental error.
3039	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, plastic B stretched the most (22 and 23 mm) and plastic A stretched the least (10 and 12 mm).   One way to help improve the experiment is to have a constant, which would be each plastic with out any weights. Another way to help improve this experiment is to specify how much weight should be added to the clamp.
3040	2	3	3	?	a) Based on the students data plastic type B stretched the most. On the first trial plastic type B stretched 22mm while plastic C only stretched Mumm. On the second trial plastic B stretched 23mm and the next closes was plastic type D which stretched 20mm.   b) Two ways the students could have improved the experiment is to do more trials and when the students are starting the experiment tell me how long the plastic is before you start to stretch it.
3041	2	0	0	?	Plastic type (A) stretched (2in) and plastic type (D) it didn't stretched at all.
3042	2	0	0	?	The conclusion I have come to base off of the students data is that the most durable plastic strength base is (1). I know this to be true because there is no length difference between T1 and T2.
3043	2	2	2	?	Plastic type A stretch 10 (mm) on the first trial and 12 on the second. Type B stretched 22 (mm) on the first and 23 on the second.  Type C stretched 14 (mm) on the first trial and 13 on the second.  Type D stretched 20 (mm) on the first trial and the same amount on the second. I can conclude that type B has the most stretchability because it stretched 22(mm) on the first trail and 23(mm) on the second trail. Two way to improve is to add a trail and try different amounts of weights.
3044	2	2	2	?	A conclusion for this lab could be that plastic type B stretched the most because it is thin and that type A streched the least because it is the thickest. A way that the student could have improved is to name the different plastics. Also to say how much weight to the clamp.
3045	2	1	1	?	Based on the student's data I can conclude that plastic type D is the strongest of them all, for both trials 1 and 2. I think they could have explained it more so that I could have a better mental image of it. I also think they should have said how much weight they added the the clamps.
3046	2	2	2	?	a. Based on the students data you can tell the plastic did not stretch too much. most of the plastics ended up stretching 1-2 mm. For example, plastic a went from stretching at 10mm-12mm, on the other hand plastic C decreased Ma and went from Mumm-13mm plastic D didn't stretch within both trials.   To improve their experiment the student could have recorded how long the bag was before weights were placed on them and they could have also said how much did the wights have to weigh in order to keep how much the bag stretched constant.
3047	2	0	0	?	The conclusion I get on this students data is that all the plastics have been weighed and been measured. But as they did the 2trial the data changed and for plastic type D its weight and length was the same it means that it was hanged up last and they took it down too fast so it measures the same.
3048	2	3	3	?	a)The conclusion that I could base is that plastic type B in both trials had stretched the longest.  (b)Two ways that the students could have improved the experimental design is by letting us know how many weights put in each cup. Also the same length of each piece should be noted as well.
3049	2	1	1	?	(A)My conclusion on the student data table is that plastic D was the strongest. It stretch up to 20 mm in both trials.  (B)Two ways the student could have improve was to make a 3 trial or test and to be able to measure the abravasion of the plastic types.
3050	2	1	1	?	After experimenting which plastic was more pliant, the conclusion was made that plastic type B was the most stretchable in, both, trial A and trial B. Two ways the student could have improved the experiment are changing step 7 and making it less vague and say specifically re do steps 1-6 for a second trial, etc. The student could be sure to time each trial for accurate validity.
3051	2	2	1	?	The plastic type B has the most elasticity over all the other plastics. Plastic type A has the least amount of stretchability over the plastics. A way he could've improved this experiment is by overawing out both times he measured the elasticity. Another way he could've improval this is by trying out more times and then averaging those out.
3052	2	2	2	?	It can be concluded that plastic B is the stretchiest because it had the highest average and much stretched of 22.5 mm. Two ways the students would have improved their experimental design are that they should've included how much weight. The weight was and how many clamps to use. Also, they should've used a control plastic to compare their results to.
3053	2	2	2	?	One conclusion I ran make is plastic B was best of stretchability. And students could have made this experiment better by making sure the plastics were the same starting size. Another way is they could have added another column to show at what sise the plastic was before the experiment so that you can see how much the plastic stretched.
3054	2	3	3	?	A. Polymer plastic B had the most stretchability of 23mm. Mumm more than plastic type A, 10mm more than plastic type c, Ma more than the stretchability of plastic type D. By having more improved trials. They should have made sure all the plastic types had the same measure in length and width. and they could have tested more types of plastics.
3055	2	3	3	?	(a) Based on the student's data, you can conclude that plastic type B is the most stretchable and plastic type A has the least stretchability.   (b) One way the student could improve is by making sure the plastic strips are all the same length and  hanging off the table from the same point. Another improvement would be to record the original length of each plastic strip. This would provide a constant to compare the results to.
3056	2	1	1	?	This experiment didn't seem to work out very well. Judging by the data table, the experiment didn't seem to prove anything. There are no significant changes in the lengths of the plastics. The first three steps of the experiment are good, but rather than removing the weights, the student should just keep adding more and more weights until the plastic, finally stops. That would really show how much the plastic could stretch. Another way to improve the experiment is to conduct a third trial. An experiment is more, valid when there are more and more trials.
3057	2	1	1	?	A.) Plastic type 2 had more stretchability then all the other plastics tested.   B>) The student could have improved the test by saying how much weights was added during the experiment. The student could have also described the rate at which to add the weights for consistency.
3058	2	2	1	?	I have concluded that plastic B stretched the most. It stretche about 23mm in all.   Name what plastics they were. Measure the plastic before you stretch it.
3059	2	3	3	?	According to the data, plastic type B is the stretchiest plastic. It stretched 22mm in trial one, and 23 mm in trial 2.   One way the students could have improved the validity of the experiment would be to not just add weights to the plastic like in the procedure, but put the same amount of weight on the plastic each time. Another problem would be if the plastic wasn't taped at the same distance from the edge and if they are using a new set of the same plastic for their second trial.
3060	2	1	1	?	Two ways the students could have improved the experiment design is to added different weights to see how much long the plastic could stretch until it trips. Another is to do more than two trial to make more reliable.
3061	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type "B" has the greatest stretchability amoung the four types of plastic. In the first trial it stretched 20mm, and in the second trial it stretched 23mm. Plastic type "A" has the worst stretchability. In (T1) it stretched 10mm, and in (T2) it stretched 12mm.  b.) Adding many more trials, and by adding more weight to the clamp, so that the plastic could stretch until it tears.
3062	2	3	3	?	a.) Based on the students data, plastic type "B" was the most stretchable of the tested plastic.   b.) One improvement would be keeping the starting length them same and stating it. Second would be the amount of weight attached at each intervals.
3063	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data it can be concluded that plastic type B has the best elasticity. The student could have improven the experiment by adding trials and specifying in the procedure how much weight is used.
3064	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B has stretched the most and A the least. D has stayed the same for both trials while C has stretched less n during the second trial and A and B have stretched more. Two ways in which the experiment could be improved is to tell how much weight to add and tell what types of plastics were used in the results.
3065	2	0	0	?	My conclusion based on the student data is that plastic typ D stretched the most and plastic type A stretched the least
3066	2	3	2	?	Plastic type be was the most stretchable. Stretching on average of 22.5mm and plastic type A was the least stretchable, stretching an average of Mumm. The students could have improved the experimental design by specifying how much weight they attatched to each plastic and then keeping it constant. The way the procedure is written now we don't know if the amount of weight was used constant.
3067	2	1	1	?	I can conclude that plastic C is the weakest out of all the plastics because it stretched the most. One way that the students could have improved the experiment is to do more than two trials in each plastic because two trials is not reliable enough. also, the students should have checked the length of the plastic at different time intervals, like every minute, so you could see how the plastic stretched over time.
3068	2	1	2	?	Plastic type A is the strongest type and has the strongest polymers. Two ways in which the experiment could have been better is that the student could have added the weight of the clamps to this data and the student could have also added the table height.
3069	2	3	3	?	A) I conclude that plastic A is the strongest because it stretched the least in both trials.   B) Two ways the student could have improved the experiment are doing another trial and including the length of the plastic, retard adding the weights, in the results.
3071	2	2	2	?	Type D stretched the same length in test one and two. They could have said what the starting measure of the plastic and how much the weights were.
3072	2	1	2	?	It can be concluded that samples B and D had higher stretchability than samples A and C to improve the experiment design, the students could have clarified how many weights they were adding to the clamp because that should have remained constant could for accurate results. Also the student could have made it clear exactly where on the table the samples were being taped because, for example if one was an inch onto the table that would take an inch off the final results.
3073	2	2	2	?	a.Plastic type B had stretched more than plastic type A in trials 1 and 2. In trial 1 plastic type B stretched 22mm, and in trial 2 it stretched 1 mm more.  (b)The student could have put the temperature in the experiment because that could've been a cause of the amount stretched of plastic. the student could've as put the start of how much the plastic weighted in mm.
3074	2	2	2	?	In this experiment, students tried to test the polymer plastics for strechability. In conclusion types A, B stretched at least one or two mm from its original length yet type C shrink and type D remained the same. One way the students could of improved their experiment is by adding how big or heavy the weights they used to stretch experiment is listing where they wanted the top of the plastic taped to the desk.
3075	2	2	2	?	Based on these results plastic type B and D stretch the most but of the four plastics while plastics A and C sustain their shape much better. The student could have improved the design of this experiment by setting on exact weight being added to the plastics and by completing one more trial to make a total of three trials.
3076	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic B was the one with the most stretchability, plastic D came next followed by plastic C then A.   b. The student could have included how much the weights weighed. This would make the experiment valid when reproduced.   Also, they could have included the initial length of the plastic before it was stretched.
3077	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data, I can conclude that plastic B is more flexible. This is because for each trial, it stretched the most. On the other hand, plastic A stretched the least because it only stretched 10mm and 12 mm while B stretched 22mm and 23mm.   To improve the validity of the results, the student could have done a third or even fourth trial. This adittional data will make the results clearer. Also, the student should state how much the weights weigh so that others can preform his experiment and get similar results. He might have also wanted to include how long the pieces of plastic were originally.
3078	2	2	3	?	a) Based on the students data you can conclude that plastic. Type B has the most stretchability.   b) One thing the student could have done top improve their experimental design would have been to tell how much weight to put on the clamps. They also could have said which side to clamp because edge could mean left, right or anything
3079	2	1	1	?	One conclusion it can draw based on the student's data is that plastic type B is stretched much more (mm) than the other three types maintining the amount of 20 mm in both trials. Based on the data. Plastic type A is less flexible stretch 10mm in the first trial an 12 in the second trial. The student could have stated that they started out with unused plastics and record their initial stretch.
3080	2	2	2	?	A conclusion to data is that plastic type B is able to stretch the furthest out of the rest of the plastic types. The student could have improved the design by adding another trial to all plastic types and also by altering the plastic to hang longer.
3081	2	3	3	?	According to the graph,plastic type B was the plastic that was stretched when plastic that was stretched when plastic type A did not stretch as much. clearly type A is more durable and sturdy .To improve the experimental design the students should have said what each of the starting weights put on the plastic were and do a third trial to make it as accurate as possible.
3082	2	2	2	?	My conclusion would be that after only two trials plastic type B proved to be the most stretchable of those 4 plastics. One way they could have improved was to do another trial. Another way is instead of only allowing five minutes they should of let hang untill it was about to rip in then measure giving it maximum legate.
3083	2	2	2	?	a) A conclusion from this data is that plastic sample B is the the most stretchable.  b) Two ways that the student could have improved the validity of the results are making the plastic samples the same initial size and allowing the plastic samples to stretch for more than five minutes.
3084	2	1	2	?	A) From the students results, I see that plastic B was the strongest, stretching 23 mm. Plastic D was next stretching 20 mm. Plastic C was third stretching 14 mm. Lastly plastic A was the weakest stretching 12 mm.  B) Two ways the students can improve their experiment is to do more trials for better results. Also they could increase the height of the table to avoid the results be tampered, should the plastic stretch to the floor.
3085	2	2	2	?	It can be concluded that plastic A is the strongest and most durable plastic it stretched significantly less then most other plastics with an average of Mumm plastic C would be the second best because it stretched an average of 13.5mm.Followed by plastic D with 20mm stretched and lastly plastic B with 2205mm stretched .The student could improve this experiment by adding a control and could be more valid by making sure each plastic was the same length.
3086	2	1	1	?	The plastic from T2 stretched a little more than it did in T1. They could have made sure the plastic weights the same, and the could of made sure the weights were all equal in each group.
3087	2	3	3	?	a) In conclusion to the results it can be said that polymer B is the most stretchy, followed by D, then C, then A. The only problems, is that you can't accurately judge it because you can't tell if they are all the same beginning length. A conclusion would only work if they were the same starting length.   b) One way to improve the design would be to specify the beginning length of the polymer strips. Another would be to indicate the amount of weight attached to each polymer.
3088	2	0	0	?	It  seems that plastic A is the most stretchable because it is the only one that stretched longer. Two ways that the students could improve the experiment is to name the different plastics. Also add heavier weights.
3089	2	3	3	?	It can be recorded that above all others tested in the experiment, plastic type B is the most stretchable. This is because at 22.5mm it had the largest amount stretched, on average between the two trails or all other plastic types.   Two ways this experiment can be improved is to state the amount of weight used fletch trial, with different weights being used, results could have different from what they should have been. Also, because the amount stretched is measured in such small increments (millimeters) more trials should be performed to enhance the data's accuracy.
3090	2	3	3	?	A)I conclusion all of the plastic stretched but plastic type B stretched the most in bath trials. .B) Two ways the students could have improved their experiment design and or validity of the results are.They could have told how much weight to add to the plastics.They could have told the plastic pieces original length.Those are two ways the students could have improved their experiment.
3091	2	0	0	?	A) Overall in this experiment trial 2 had stretched more than trial 7.   B) Try adding more weight to the plastic bags and let the weights hung on the bags for a longer period of time.
3092	2	2	2	?	(a)The conclusion is that all of the plastics stretched from 10 mm - 23 mm. Plastic type A stretched the least and plastic type B type B stretched the most.  (b)The students could did a third trial, or make a fourth trial. They could added the temp and weights to the plastic types of the same time and then measured at the same time.
3093	2	3	3	?	A) The stretchiest of the four materials was B, with the average stretchincs of 22.5mm's.   B) The student could have made sure to cut all the plastic into even strips of the same length and width, and second they could have performed another trial for each plastic.
3094	2	2	2	?	a) You could tell that plastic type B would be the best plastic because it stretched the most with weights onit.   B) Two ways the students could have improved were said how much the weights weighed. Also they could have done a second trial with heavier weights.
3095	2	0	0	?	A conclusion based on the student's data would be that the plastics were other a little more or less stretchy the second time due to it being stretched out the first time. One way the student could have improved the experiment design was by performing a third trial without weights. Another way would be to allow them to hand for about 10 minutes the 3rd time.
3096	2	0	0	?	They can conclude that even after a second trial of stretching, the plastics significantly didn't stretch to much larger than trial 1.
3097	2	2	2	?	3. In conclusion, plastic type B stretched the most because during 11 it stretched 22mm and during 12 it stretched the least.   The student could have improved the experiment design by adding more ways to stretch the plastic. For example, adding little heat. The results could have simply been improved with a few more trials.
3098	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data it can conclude that plastic type D is the plastic with the most stretchability. Two ways, this experiment could have been improved is by adding more trials, also adding the amount of weights and being specific about the length of each plastic.
3099	2	2	2	?	3. A) Plastic type B had stretched the most out of both of the trials.   B) added more trials more time for plastic to be hanging.
3100	2	2	1	?	One conclusion that I can draw from this experiment is that plastic B stretched the most for both trials. 2 ways to improve the validity would to be add a control (no weight) and see if it stretches and the size of the plastic sample, just to make sure that every plastic is the same size to start.
3101	2	3	3	?	a) A conclusion that can be made from this data is that plastic type B has the most stretchability. This is because in both trials it stretched 22-23 mm and that is more than any other plastic type tested.   b)Two ways that the student could have improved the experimental design was to make the weights used for every plastic sample constant. Also for the plastic samples the student could make sure to have the starting length afall the plastic types be the same and constant. Making as many aspects of the experiment constant maker fur more all work results
3102	2	2	1	?	Plastic type A- 10(mm)T1-T2 12   B-22(mm)T1-T223 C-14(mm)T1-T2 13   D-20(mm) T1-T220   2 ways the student could have improved.   1. Repeat the whole procedure 3 times.   2. Measure 3 times the sample of one type of plastic and measure length.
3103	2	0	0	?	I think e 11 or 12 40 or 40.
3104	2	2	2	?	A conclusion based on the data given is that each piece of plastic stretched around the same amount each trial. This lets you know that it his as really the only amount it can given one it wasn't really change her multiple trays. Two ways the student could have improved the validity is by making each amount of plastic the same and by using the same amount or weight for each trial.
3105	2	1	1	?	In conclusion, if the student was to go on with the investigation, T2 will allways have depending on the plastic 12, 23, 13, 20 up the numbers.   Two ways the students could have improved the experimtal are, 1) The could of told us how much weights to and 2) If they hang the clamp for 10min the experiment might have change.
3106	2	3	3	?	a) I concluded that his clab is valid based upon doing multiple trials. I also noticed that the most stretchable was B and the least was A.  b)Though two trials is good, it is best to do a third trial or fourth trial would be best. Also I think that they should have measured the length of the plastic before and have it on the the data table to compare the changes the occured in the plastics.
3107	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data C is wrong because the first time is streched Mumm then the second time is stretched 13 how is that possible the second trial should be more or equal if the used the same weight.  b) He could told us how much weight he used. Also be could have done another trial to be sure his data was right.
3108	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data I can say that plastic type C can stretch the most because in both trials plastic type C stretched atleast 9mm longer than the second hoghest plastic stretchability. To improve the experimental design the students could have said how much weight should be attached to the clamp and exactly what steps should be repeated in the second trial.
3109	2	0	0	?	Based on this students information i would say that the first 2 exceeded, because they went up the second time. This means it went farther. But, for the last too, the went down or stayed the same. A way the student could have improved was to make step 6 in the procedure more clear, by saying what steps to repeat. Second way they could improved was by for step five put more steps because step 5 has like 3 steps in one.
3110	2	1	2	?	The student's results show that plastic B was the most elastic. Plastic D was second. Plastic C was third and plastic A was fourth. In terms of stretchability plastic B is the most and A is the least.   Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design and or validity is by doing more trials with different amounts of weight to really understand how stretchy the plastic is. Another way it could be changed is by changing the times of the trials to see how long it took each plastic to let the plastic get to the maximum length.
3111	2	1	1	?	According to the data table the conclusion of this experiment would be that plastic type B stretched the most in both trials 1 and trials 2.   Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design or validity of the results was to try different amounts of weights that get attached to each plastic and also to let the plastic hang for different amounts of time to see the affect it would have.
3112	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic type A has the most stretchability than the other plastic types.   b) The students could have improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results if they had more trials and a better control.
3113	2	2	1	?	A Form the data table, it can conclude that plastic A was the most durable when stretched, and the least durable was plastic B. Plastic A stretched 10mm than 12mm while plastic B stretched 22mm than 23mm.   B 1. There is no indication that after the first trial, he replaced the plastic, which of made the results from trial B invalid. 2. He could have done the lab again or added a trial 3 and 4. The more you do the later the better off your results will be. It would make it more valid. 3. He could have also tried the plastics because if me great longer from another it would stretching.
3114	2	2	2	?	a) I conclude, that Plastic type A stretched the most(Sml).   b)To improve the experimental design and or or mostly of the results, species the amount of weight added to the clamp, and make all pieces of places for one uniform length.
3115	2	3	3	?	I have come to the conclusion that plastic type B has the best stretching ability since the data shows it stretched 22 mm and 23 mm. The students could have improved the validity by making sure all the plastics starting length were the same. Also, the weight added to the plastic should have stayed constant as well throughout all trials.
3116	2	3	3	?	In conclusion, it can be said that plastic. Type B had the most amount stretched because its numbers in T1 (22)and T2 (23) were the highest. Also the plastic type that was more durable and was not stretched is muuh was plastic type A because its number in T1(10) was and T2 (12) were the lowest to improve this experiment,it would be better to include three trials and include the plastics type initial measurements to make the data table more specific and efficient.
3117	2	2	2	?	Based on the data table, plastic type B stretched the most in the 15 minutes with the amount stretched for T 1 was 22mm and for T2 -23mm. So type B had the most stretchability .  2 ways the students could have improved their experiment would be labeling the type of plastic they were using instead of putting plastic type A, B, C, and D. And another way they could've improved their experiment would be trout how many weights they clamped to the plastic for each plastic. So we can see how far the plastics stretched, and how many weights were used.
3118	2	1	1	?	One way the students can improve there experiment is to do a other trial to see if they misdated anything.
3119	2	3	3	?	a) Based on the students data, plastic type B is the weakest plastic out of them all, and the strogest polymer plastic is plastic A because it was stretched the least.   B) The students could've included more discription on the plastic, like each plastics length or width, in order to show that everything was the same in length and width. Also the students should include in procedure on how many weights they used.
3120	2	2	2	?	A) Paced on the results plastic B is the most stretchy and A is the least. The order is from most shotely to  least B D C A.   b) The student could of improved experimental design by being more specific. He could change "Bottom edge" in step 3 to "Edge of the side of the table." Additionally he could give us the weight of the clamp weights.
3121	2	2	2	?	My conclusion from the data presented is plastic type B and C through B and C increased higher but D stays constant at 20, those were only with two trials the student should have done more trials and should have stated the length of the paper.
3122	2	3	3	?	A conclusion that can be made based on the data is that plastic type A is the strongest. This is ture because plastic A stretched the least about on average. Two ways that the students could have improved their lab is by saying how long the types of plastic should be and saying how many weights should be added to the clamp and how many weights should be added to the clamp because there could have been an error when the plastics were different lengths with different amounts of weights and this would make the data inaccurate.
3123	2	2	2	?	I conclude that plastic B stretched the most but plastic D was constant. He could have added more that's. He should use brand new plastic so the test would be accurate.
3124	2	3	3	?	a) The stretchiest kind of plastic was type B. because it stretched the most.    b) The student could have given the weights and the original length of the plastic in the procedure and made sure they were constant.
3125	2	1	3	?	Based on the students data it is possible to see how much each type of plastic stretched, but not how much weight was needed to stretch it that far as the original length of the plastic.   Two ways the student could have improved the experiment are to make a more detailed procedure. Include the weight of the type of plastic, clanes instructions etc and too create a clearer table that includes the types of plastic, the original length and the weight added.
3126	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B stretched the most in both trials one and two. Plastic type A stretched the least in both of the trials.  The students could have improved the experiment design by conduction more trials and so stating how many weights they added on top of the clamps. The results werent valid.
3127	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the data, the most stretchable plastic was plastic B b or c it stretched 22 mm on the first trial and 23 mm on the second trail. Also, the least stretchable plastic was plastic A b or c it only stretched in during T1 _ 12 during T2. Plastic C stretched only a bit more than plastic A. Plastic D stretched 20 mm's both times making it the 2nd most stretchable out of the 4.
3128	2	2	2	?	A. My hypothesis was correct plastic type 'A' stretched the least during the experiment. I noticed that the plastic that stretched the least was most commonly used in our town to hold the heaviest items.   B. To improve the validabil of the experiment the students should have used a specific amount of each plastic not just a 'sample'. Also the students should have stretched the plastic across a gap and placed weights on top. This would have shown a more accurate assesment compared to the actoal use.
3129	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data it is concluded that their  wasn't much stretchability from the plastic samples. Sample A increased Ma from T1 to T2. Sample B increased Ma from T1 to T2. Sample C decreased by Ma from T1 to T2. Sample D stayed the same in T1 and T2. This experiment could be improved if the student had a control which would be the measure of each plastic sample without any weight added.They could also repeat the experiment.
3130	2	2	2	?	a. Plastic B was the most stretchy. It was 22mm in the first trial in the second trial it stretched 1 more millimeter. The second most stenchy polimer was plastic D I remained at 20mm both trials.   b. The students could have improved the experimental design! validity of the results bys I. Specifying the amount of weight added in the experiment and 2. They could have tried different ways of testing the stretchability othere how using weights.
3131	2	1	1	?	Out of all the polmer plastics type A stretched a total of 2 mm as the best one.   To have a control and to make sure to tell us how long the plastic is.
3132	2	3	3	?	a) In this experiment,it  can be concluded that plastic B had the most stretchability with 22mm in trial 1 and 23mm in trial 2. Also I can conclude that plastic A of the polymer plastics stretched the least with an average of 11m overall. Then plastic C stretched an average of 12mm and plastic D stretched 20mm  b)Two ways to improve this experiment would have been to make sure each plastic is exactly the same length as the add to the end of the plastic they could also add a 3rd trial to make the experiment more valid.
3133	2	1	1	?	(a) In this data it shows how far different type of plastic can be stretched. Plastic type A was stretched Ma within trial 1 and 2. Plastic type B was stretched Ma. Lastly plastic type D was stretched Ma. In conclusion plastic type A was the easiest to stretch.   (B) Two ways it could have been improved was a have more tests and what what type of plastic.
3134	2	3	3	?	Through this data recorded from the experiment, we can conclude that plastic A had the strongest polymer setup. This is because it stretched the least throughout both trials. One way  this experiment could have been improved is by creating more contents . For example the weights added to the clamp should have defiantly been the same. Also, to improve validity, the student should have had the same starting length of plastics. thing this
3135	2	0	0	?	a) Plastic type A was strethier because on the first trial it streched out to 10mm and in the second trial it streched out to 12mm. It had streched longer, but plastic type D seems to have been stronger, it only streched 20mm through out both of the trials.
3136	2	1	1	?	A: I think that plastic D in both trials had the most weights out of the three other plastics from the student's data.   B: Two ways that the student could have improved the experimental design is one that the student could have done five trials instead of two to see the difference. Also instead of four plastics but five he or she could improve the statement too.
3137	2	2	2	?	In conclusion in trial one plastic type B streched the most while plastic type A was the lowest in trial two plastic type B streched the furthering.   Measure the height of the table, weigh the weights.
3138	2	1	1	?	(A) Plastic type B was able to hold the most weights for each trial.   (B) Two ways they could have improved the experiment or validity is doing more trials for each plastic or they  could have let the plastic hang for longer than just 5 minutes.
3139	2	0	1	?	A) Based on the student data table. Ii can conclude that plastic types A is the strongest because it didn't stretch that far. in the first trial it only stretch 10mm and in T2 it only strech 12, I can also conclued that plastic type D is the weakes because in both trial it strech 20mm.   B)The student could have improve the experiment either by leaving the weights on longer or by add more heavier weights
3140	2	2	2	?	Based on this student's data, the type with the most amount of stretching was plastic type b with 20mm and plastic A had the least with 10 the first trial and 12 the second. The student could've conducted more trials as well as stated what the types of plastic were.
3141	2	3	3	?	The plastic with the least stretch would be plastic A because it had a small change from 10mm to 12mm. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results are have the clamps and weights be the same ones everytime and make sure the plastic is on the side of the table not going on the top of the table.
3142	2	3	3	?	a. I concluded that plastic type B had the best stretchability and plastic type A had the least.  b. The student should have included in the procedure how many weight to put on the clamp and describe where on the bottom edge of the plastic to put the clamp.
3143	2	0	0	?	In conclusion the students data show that when the plastic was stretch each material stretched only 1-2 mm. This is not a very big change in length. The data also showed that for one of the plastics after stretched lost a mm of length. So this was not a very succsecfull lab.   One thing that they could do to improve this is to tell us what kind of plastic to use so the experiment is easier to test and also to have a control variable to really see the change in plastics.
3144	2	1	1	?	My conclusion is that type B is the most stretchy, based on the results. The student should have improved this by doing it in even trials even though. Other could be how, put there's experiment on the table. This would have improved the validity.
3145	2	1	1	?	a. Type D plastic stretched the same amount in trial 1 and 2. It stretched 20mm.   b. In the procedure the students can get rid of step 7 because step 6 basically states the same thing. Also, they could have done three trials for more data.
3146	2	2	3	?	In conclusion, plastic D stretched more than all the other plastics two steady trials of 20mm each. Plastic type A and B both stretched a little more in trial 2 and plastic type C stretched less. Plastic type B stretched the most having stretched 22 then 23mm.   Improve:(1). Show in graph beggining length of plastic   (2) Create a T3 and try it once more.   (3) Add another 3 trials with different weight.
3147	2	2	2	?	In conclusion plastic type B is the most polymer for stretchability because in both trials it erected the most making it the most stretched out of the all other polymers.  Two ways the student could have improved is by saying which plastics the students used for each so the people would know if the data is correct and by saying how much weight was used to stretch the plastic.
3149	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B can be stretched the farthest.   b) -1) The students could have specified how heavy the weights were.   2) They could've let the plastic hang for more than 5 minutes.
3150	2	3	2	?	A conclusion could be that plastic type B had the best results for strechability with Am and 23m. To make the experiment more valid the group could haved run more trials and they also could used more detail in the procedure like stated how heavy the weights were.
3151	2	2	1	?	I think that the data they have is correct but it shows that plastic type "A" is the only one that has a lower trial than the other types. Two ways the students could have improved the experiment was to tell how heavy the weights were and what plastic was used.
3152	2	1	1	?	(A) In conclusion, plastic B and D have more stretchability than A and C because plastics B and D stretched an average of 21mm while plastics A and C stretched an average of 12mm.   (B) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design are to do more trials and to add a control.
3153	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, it is easy to conclude that plastic type D was the most constant through both trials with a measurement of 20 mm. The student's, though could have improved their experiment by doing more trials and by also being more specific. For example, saying what types of plastic they used instead of saying A, B, C or D. Also they could have said how much weight was added so that it is clear and exact.
3154	2	1	1	?	A. In conclusion, based on the student's data polymer plastic B stretch the most in both trials done and the least that stretch both trials was type A, leaving us to see B is the most stretchable from all for types.   B She could have included a time limit for the plastic to dangle freely. Second she could have made a graph to have it be more visual.
3155	2	3	3	?	Based on the data, we can tell that plastic type A stretches the least amount of all other types of plastic. It only stretched an average of 11 mm which was less than all others. The students could improve their experiment by adding another trial. This always verifies the validity of an experiment. They could also verify how long the strip of plastic is and keep that constant throughout the experiment.
3156	2	1	1	?	A conclusion draw is that trail 1 the plastic wasn't that strong to pull but trail 2 it went far and was stretched more. Plastic type D was the same in trail 1 and 2. The students could have improved the experimental design by maybe adding another trial to see what you get. Also they could have use diffrent plastic for the trials.
3157	2	0	1	?	Based on the student's data, plastic D stretched the same length for both trials. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design would be to on the data table, say how long each type of plastic is before the student started the experiment. Another way the student could of improved the experimental design would be to have done only one trial instead of two.
3158	2	3	2	?	I cannot draw a conclusion because important information is missing from the table. The students could have improved the test by adding in the plastic length to the data table. They also could have included the ammount of weight the weights weigh.
3159	2	1	2	?	A) The students wanted to see which plastic was mor strechibal. B) Two ways the students could have improved the experiment is by doing a 3rd trial say how far off the table.
3160	2	3	3	?	a) Based on the data, they can conclude that plastic B stretched the most.  b) They could have included the mass of the weights added. They also should have included the size of the plastic samples.
3161	2	0	0	?	My conclusion is trials (T2) stretched better than (T2). The student could have used a different type of plastic and they could have just made the sample very larger.
3162	2	3	3	?	a. Based on the student data, plastic type B stretched the most. Plastic type stretch 22 and 23 mm.   b. The student could have been more specific about the amount of weights to add.
3163	2	2	2	?	A) Plastic type B stretched the most probably hefty or ziplock)   B) Taken thickness temp in room, original length, etc.
3164	2	3	3	?	The plastic type B stretched the most out of all the other plastic types. Two ways the student could have improved his experiment was, 1) to include in his data table how much weight he used on the clamp. 2) To include what the starting length of the plastic was in his data table.
3165	2	3	3	?	The students wanted to determine in this experiment which type of plastic A, B C, or D was able to stretch the most. Based on the data, plastic B had the best stretchability and was able to stretch 22 mm in the first trial and 23 mm in the second trial. The students could have conducted more trials to improve the validity of their results. To improve their experimental design they could have been more specific and stated how many weights should be added to the plastics and to better control the experiment.
3166	2	1	1	?	Based on the data table I would say that plastic D was your strongest plastic, because it didn't stretch. One way they could of improved the experiment was to run a trial 3 to tell plastic D. Another way they could of improved the experiment is by adding many weights.
3167	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data, the plastic B is the most stretchable polymer plastic. Plastic A is the least stretchable. This is because plastic B was streched at 22mm (1st trial) and 23mm (2nd trial). Comparing it to the others, it streched the furthest. Plastic A only stretched 10mm (1st trial) and 12mm (2nd trial). To improve this experiment, the students should have had a control choosing a specific plastic. They also should have done one more trial to ensure validity. Three trials can help make this definite.
3168	2	2	2	?	In conclusion the plastics stretched more during the second trial than the first.The second trial the first. The second trial all plastics stretched further except for type C and D which did not change. Two ways to make this better would have been to do a third trial and to specify how much the weights were.
3169	2	3	2	?	a) Based on the students data, plastic type B stretched the most at an average of 22.3mm, while plastic A stretched a mere Mumm average. Plastic D stretched the second most with an average of 20mm and then plastic with 13.5 average mm. The average in stretchability is due to the different chemical composites of each plastic.   b) The student could have improved the validity and design by recording how much weight was used, which would allow someone to replicate the experiment and recording the percentage stretched rather than just how much. A sample that is 10cm but stretched 10mm is a much more significant change than one that is 10 meters and stretched 10mm, but the data table fails to recognize that.
3170	2	1	1	?	In conclusion all the plastic types are all different amount stretched. The plastic stretching out in trials 1-2 are going up and down.   The student could have improved by doing a third trial to show more of the results. Explain why they added more weight.
3171	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data I can conclude that plastic type A was the strongest because it stretched the least amount.   b) For the student to improve the experimental design they could have written how much weight the put on the plastics. and to improve, the validity they should have done a third trial.
3172	2	0	0	?	A.In the polymer investigation there werent a lot of change plastic type a stretched only 2 mm, type B stretched 1 mm, type c stretched Ma and D stayed the same.  B.Could of been more accurate with the steps on the procedure.
3173	2	0	1	?	a) In conclusion plastic type B has the highest stretchability and plastic type A was the lowest. This shows that A is the most non-flexible and the most durable to stretchy tasks. Plastic B is the stretchiest and can hold up to 23mm.   They could've added a list of materials in the beginners and a hypothesis to see what they were trying to test.
3174	2	1	2	?	The plastic type A is shown to be the the strongest plastic type. Mean while the plastic type B shows to be the plastic that stretched out the longest.
3175	2	0	0	?	In conclusion, based on the students data there are four different type of plastic. Based of the plastic are T1,T2 their amount stretched (mm). And based in the Dutch table T2 is more stretched than T1. The students can describe experimental based in diffent plastic . And the students can based in that data table the T2 is more stretched.
3176	2	3	3	?	a) After investigating how much each plastic type stretched, a conclusion has made that plastic type B stretched most than D, Than C and plastic type A stretched the least. b) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design was to first use the same starting length of the plastic bag that could effect the results and secondly be more specific about how much weight to add.
3177	2	3	3	?	Based on the data, plastic type B stretched the most out of all of the plastics. Type A stretched an average of Mumm, type C stretched an average 13.5mm and type D stretched 20mm. But type B stretched 20cm but type B stretched the most with an average of 22.5mm.   B) The student could have improved his experiment by telling how long the plastic was as well as how the weights weighed. Another thing the student can do is add one more trial.
3178	2	2	2	?	A conclusion that can be drawn based on the students data is, plastic type B had the greatest amount of stretchability in (mm). In both trials the plastic stretched further than the other type. In trial 1 22mm, and trial 2 23mm. 3. The student could have made this lab more valid by adding the different types of plastics that were labeled A, B, C, and D and also the student could have set an exact length for each plastic so they all started at the same measurement.
3179	2	2	2	?	A. The students could have concluded that plastic type B has the largest amount of stretchability, because type B stretched 22 min in trial one and 23 mm in trial 2.   B. The students could have improved the validity of their experiment by; 1. Doing more trials to collect more data. 2. Allow the clamps with the weights to hang longer than 5 min.
3180	2	2	2	?	A) A conclusion that can be brought from the data is that plastic type B is the best type of plastic fore  stretchability because it stretched 22mm and 23mm on it's trials.   B) Two ways the students could have improved this experiment is by having or stating that the plastics all had the same initial measurement. Also, the student could have named the type of plastics. The validity can be questioned because it is unknown if they were the same length to begin with and the plastic is unknown.
3181	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data, plastic B stretches more than the other plastics. The students could improve this experiment by checking the temperature of the room because plastic's elasticity varies on the temperature. Another improvement would be to measure the amount of weight that is being put into each bag.
3182	2	2	2	?	The data showas the plastic for stretching more in B. Because maybe the put or did different procesure. But experiment D have the same type of stretching. The procesure are the same or maybe he did it three times. The students have to do the procesure, they have to do the experiment like three time as or more. The need to have all the materials and put it in order. The need to have his own question. Find his conclusion.
3183	2	1	1	?	My conclusion is that plastic type D stretched the farthest both trials. They could have done another trial and they could have put more weights on the clamp so it can stretch more.
3184	2	1	1	?	Plastic type A held up best against the wheight of the wheights. So I would use the plastic out of any where. Plastic type D expanded and stretched the most.   Two ways the student could have improved the experiment was, one; name the plastics and two; tell how much the wheights wheighed.
3185	2	3	3	?	a) A conclusion I can draw with the data present is that some plastics are more stretchy than others. For example plastic B is much more stretchy then plastic A.   b) To improve there experimental design and validity the results they could of added another trial. Also to say how much plastic measured before the plastic was stretched.
3186	2	0	0	?	One way it would have been good to improve the experiment is listing the steps or procedure properly.
3187	2	3	3	?	A) My conclusion based on the students data would be that plastic B has the highest stretchability. I say this because plastic B had stretched more in 5 minimums than any of the other plastics in this experiment.   B) There are many ways this student could have improved their designs. One way they can improve their designs is to provide the weights of both the samples and weights. They could have also add more trials to improve their design.
3188	2	1	1	?	A)Based on the data that the st recondite I think plastic B will work better with 23mm. When the stud 22mm and plastic T2 with 23mm, when the student have to add weight to clam and allow for 5 minutes.  (B)Amex could add more trial and try other type of plastic.
3189	2	1	1	?	From the students data looks like the first trials were good but the second trials the plastic stretches more. It looks like the second trial for A, B, C, O hanged there for a by with the weights the last trial. The student could have improved the experimental design if it would of have more plastics and add ,ore minutes to see what would happen if it stayed longer then 5 minutes. Another way could have been if you knew how many weights you were putting on the clamp. So you'll know how many weights and how long would make this experiment improve.
3190	2	3	3	?	3. a) Plastic A is the most resistant and the strongest because it stretched the least out of the 4 plastics. This is due to being created with more or stronger polymer chains.   b) The experiment could be improved by using the same amount of the weights on each type of plastic. This would show how the strengths of the plastic differ mere accurately. Also, the trial should be performed more than 2 times. Since results varied greatly by up to Ma with the 2nd trial, this variation would be minimized with more trials.
3191	2	3	3	?	base on the data table plastic type B stretched the most amount in 22 mm in trial 1 and 23 mm in trial  before apping. The two ways the students could have improved their experiment better is by labeling how much weight was the weight add they to the clamp and also by adding more trials to see more accracy.
3192	2	1	1	?	In the procedure it doesn't have a clear problem of what is happening on the experiment. On procedure 7, it doesn't tell you the trial that thy did for the first one. Two ways the students can aprove is on the last trial explains whats the first trial is and not make the person reading it not to know whats the trial is. The last way is for number four it says add weights to the clamp and alowthem to hange for 5 minutes. How heavy are the weights you need to use on the experiment.
3193	2	2	1	?	a. Based on the data below it is saying that the plastic could stretch depending on what or how strong the plastic is. B. Explain what is clamp. Have a third trial or have lest durable plastic to do the trials.
3194	2	0	0	?	3 or 4 increased by 1, 1 or 4 decreased by 1 and 1 or 4 stayed the.   b.) Two ways of improving;   1)Used a different weight for second trial.   2) Or used four different types of plastic.
3195	2	2	3	?	Based on the student and data i can draw the conclusion that plastic type A only stretched an average of Mumm so it was the strongest and stretched out of all the other plastic types.   b. The student could have improved the experiment by doing one more trial for a total of three trials for each plastic type for accuracy and he or she could have measured the initial length of the plastic.
3197	2	3	3	?	A. In conclusion we found that plastic type B had the most stretchability, it stretched out the most both trials and that plastic type A was less stretchable.   B. Two ways the students can improve there experiment design is to do three more so the experiment can be more valid and 2 they should identify how much weight they put on the clamp.
3198	2	0	0	?	One way the coud of used rocks instead of weights to improve the experiment design.   Second way instead of measure the length after the weight they should measure the length of the plasic while the weight was ve there.
3199	2	1	1	?	A conclusion I can make based on the student's data is that plastic A can only stretch about 11 mm. Plastic B can strech about 22.5mm. Plastic C can strech about 13.5 mm and plastic D can only strech 20 mm. One way the experiment could have been improved is by skeeping the weight added through out the experiments the same. The second way to improve the experiment is for the plastic to be maesured in asmaller unit rather than mm.
3200	2	1	1	?	a) My conclusion is that plastic type D was the strongest of them all.  B) Two way he can improve the experiment is be using the same amount of time, and the same amount of plastics.
3201	2	2	2	?	a) The conclusion I can get from the data is plastic A went from 10mm to 12mm, plastic B went from 22mm to 23mm, plastic C went down from Ma to 13mm, and plastic D stayed at 20mm.   B) The way they could improved the experimental design is by doing a 3rd trial, and showed how much weight they used.
3202	2	3	3	?	a.) A conclusion I can draw from the experiment is that that plastic type B has the most stretchability because it stretched the greatest amount of mm which wass 22mm in trial 1 and 23mm in trial 2.   b.) The student could improve this experiment by specifying a certain length all polymer plastics should start out as so they all begin on the same level and therefore the data is accurate. Also, the student could specify how many kilometers of each plastic should be taped to the table so they all start put the same length and make the data more accurate.
3203	2	3	3	?	A) plastic type B was the most stretchable while plastic type A was the least.   B) They could add more trials and be more specific when the say "weights" by adding how heavy the weights are.
3204	2	0	0	?	It will be not that different from the other test that was done because if there went down or up a little. He could have done a bar graph for the things he was trying to figure out about it all or just had at least told the time he did it.
3205	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B has shown to be the most stretchable polymer plastic by stretching about 23 mm.   b. One way the student could have improved the experimental design is by doing more trials. Another way would be writting down how many weights they added to each plastic type.
3206	2	2	1	?	Each plastic type had stretched about 1-2 millimeters, as where type D did not stretch much, therefore the type D plastic was the strongest.  Two ways the students should have improved there experimental design would be not to use the same plastic each trial, do it three times instead of two, and include the length from floor to table.
3207	2	2	3	?	a) Based  on the students data, plastic type A had the strongest resistance against weight and therefore makes it stronger than the rest because plastic A stretched 10-12mm while plastic B stretched 22-23mm.   b) The students should have had the same size plastic strips for each type. A third and an averaged measurement for each plastic would make the data even more valid.
3208	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B stretched the most while plastic type a stretched the least. This shows that plastic type B have less cross linking of its polymers while plastic A had the greatest amount of cross linking.   b) One way the students could have improved their experiment could be, add another trial to get a bigger range to make sure the data is accurate, another way the students could have improved their experiment is by adding more plastic types for a longer sample size.
3209	2	1	1	?	3.a. The students experiment was a good experiment because ( they had 4 different plastic types they had two trials to check and recheds for experiment.   b. They could have had more trials, they should had more plastic types.
3210	2	0	0	?	A) Based on the data as you see, different type of plastic they would be different or the same on both trials. For example plastic type A first. Trial is werent stretchable and when you repeat it again it would change.   B) Two ways to make it better was have more different plastics and maybe add more weight to the clamp to see what changes.
3211	2	2	2	?	a) My conclusion according to the data would be that plastic B stretched the most.   B) Some ways the students could improve their experiment is if they said how much weights was on the plastics. Also they should of not have done the second trial exactly the same as the first cause there would be no difference so the data should be the same as the first because the second trial was supposed to be done exactly the same as the first.
3212	2	3	3	?	a: Plastic type b has the most amount of stretchability in all the four plastics.   b: The students could have repeated the experiment a third time and made sure that they were adding the same size weights everytime.
3213	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B was the polymer plastic with the greatest stretch length. Plastic type A was the most resistant to stretch. b. The students need to make a couple of changes to improve the validity of the results. In step 1 of the procedure, it says "take a sample of one type of plastic B measasure its length". This is misleading because all 4 polymer plastics should be the same length at the beginning of the experiment. This is important b or c the longest should be the piece is at the beginning can affect how much it will stretch. Finally students need to change step 9 "add some weights" to a specific number of weight. This is important b or c if they put more weight on one plastic it will stretch farther, than a plastic w or  less weight attached.
3214	2	0	0	?	I guess when the plastic reaches a certain amount it will break.   They should of used a different type of plastic to see how it works out.
3215	2	2	2	?	In conclusion. Plastic A was the least streched after two tries also plastic B was the most stretchers after the two tries. The student could have improved the experimental design by being more specific and also measured the length of the materials before doing the experiment.
3216	2	1	1	?	Based on the student's data I can conclude that plastic type B is the strongest. For example, in trial 1 it stretched 22 mm and in trial 2 it stretched 23 mm.   Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design are adding another trial and increase the amount of time it hangs.
3217	2	1	1	?	A)Plastic type B is more flexible and stronger, some plasticstretch more after the first trial like 10mm-12mm  B) I think having more trials so his data can be more percise and having A catrol
3218	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B is the stretchiest while type A is the least stretchy. Two ways they could improve the experiment is by adding more trials and check to make sure all other variables are constant such as temperature.
3219	2	1	1	?	Plastic type B stretched more than all other plastic types.  One way  the experiment could have been improved is if they kept on adding weights until the plastic broke and measured how much weight it can hold. Another way is of puting one plastic on top of another and add the weight and see if that changes how far one on the plastic stretches.
3220	2	0	0	?	The students conclusion was not much because there was many types of plastics to choose from.   The students could have improved the experiment if the student picked a certain type of plastic not any type. Other reason is that they not the weights in the same spot in trial 1 and trial 2.
3221	2	2	2	?	a) In conclusion of this experiment, plastic type B seemed to stretch the most in both trials of the experiment. Also it seems as if plastic type A was the stacking in the experiment as it only stretched a half the amount of plastic type A.   b) Instead of "add weights" they could have given a specific amount of time. They also could have given the original lengths of each plastic.
3222	2	2	2	?	a) Based on our results, we can conclude that plastic B was the weakest because it stretched the most. Plastic A was the strongest because it stretched the least.   b) They could have mentioned more contents such as the weight they put on the bag sample every trial.   They should have had a control, atrial where no weights were added.
3223	2	2	2	?	A conclusion of the experiment would be that plastic B was the stretchiest plastic. Also, that plastic A was the least stretchy. Make all the plastic samples the same length and make sure that T1 and T2 have the same amount of plastic.
3224	2	1	1	?	3.a) The plastics A  and b stretched farther the 2nd time but d and c stayed the same or went down.   B) Stretched it a third time or measure it when it was hanging off the table.
3225	2	2	2	?	A)Based on the student's data, the plastic that has has the most stretchability is plastic type A. It started at 10 mm and then the weight added on it stretched to 12mm. Plastic type D has no stretchability, It remained at 20 mm for the second trial.  (b) One way the student could have improved the results and validity of them is by stating how much weight was added to each type of plastic bag. Also if you record the length A was before adding weights, you can see how for each bag stretched from itself. Right now there is no constant in the experiment.
3226	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data, it can be seen that plastic B stretched 22mm (T1) and 23mm (T2) making it the most stretchable.   The students could have improved the experiment by including the length of the plastics before stretching them. Also, they need to include how much weight to add to the plastic, making it the same for each plastic to be valid.
3227	2	2	2	?	The conclusion of this experiment would be that type B was the most amount stretched, it stretched 22 then try 2 was 23 meanwhile type A stretched the least. In try one A stretched 10 and 2nd try stretched 12. The two ways students can improve the experimenta; design, is to always give it a 3rd try. What is your control.
3228	2	1	1	?	From reading this students procedure and reviewing their data, I have realized some plastics are significantly better than others. The data shows that plastic type B that stretched 22mm and 23mm, and plastic type D stretched 20mm both times. Types B and C because that table shows A that stretched 10 and 12mm are type C stretched 14 and 13 mm. In conclusion, plastic type B and D are much stronger than A and C. b) Two ways they could have improved the experimental design is allowing them to hang for more than 5 minutes to get better data. Also, running a third trial will improve their results.
3229	2	1	1	?	In the second trial, plastic A the stretch increased by two bara, Plastic B the second trial increased by one mm: almost it decreased one mm now in plastic D the stretch stayed the same. Two ways student could have improved their lab or validity, one was to have a third trial so you could see if there would have been a great change or to see which results were closer to results one and two to make your final choice. Another way to improve the lab was to try different measurements of plastic.
3230	2	2	2	?	According to the experiment, the type of plastic that had the greatest ability to stretch was plastic B. In both trials, this plastic stretched a few mm more than the rest. In the first trial it stretched 22mm and in the second 22mm.   The student could have improved the experiment by using a certain amount of weights added so that all the plastics would be under the same pressure and to add a control such as no weights. The control would have made a good comparison to the data gathered and the amount of weights would have made created controlled variables.
3231	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B has the best stretchability out of all the other plastics. two ways that the students could improve on there experimental design and valeted is by having a control and by telling the reader the amount of weights to the plastic so that they can replicate the procedure.
3232	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data the plastic type D was the stretcheyest. And plastic type A was the least stretchiest at of all the other plastics one way the student could have improved his results was if he or she added the same amount of weights everytime .Also If they did more trials they would pebbly get more validity results.
3233	2	0	0	?	In conclusion,you can conclude that plastic B measured the longest which was 12 (T1) and 23 (T2), also you can see that plastic type D had came the closes to plastic B, plastic D measured 20mm for both trials  b) They could improve their experiment if the actually added more minutes each trial to see different outcome and compare. Also, could've added more weights.
3234	2	2	2	?	Based on this student's results I can conclude that the most stretchable plastic is type B. Type B plastic stretched 22 mm the first trial and 23 mm the second trial. Some thing that could have been done to improve the validity of the experiment would be to do a third trial. In an experiment can make the results more accurate depending on the amount of trials there are in your experiment.
3235	2	1	1	?	The data shows that the plastic types stretched about the same in both trials. In the procedures the student must say which she is recording the data. I think the data would have a better conclusion if the student did another trial for each different plastic.
3236	2	2	2	?	A) The order from the most stretchable to the lest stretchable is plastic types B first, D second, C third, and A last. Plastic type B streched the furthest at 22mm 1st trail and 23mm the second trial. A was the least strechability and streched 10mm 1st trail and 12mm the second.   B) The student could have done more trails or they could have let it hand longer.
3237	2	1	1	?	(A) In conclusion, based on the students data, the plastic samples stretched slightly more in the second trial. Plastic type D was the only plastic that kept its length constant. (B) To improve the validity of the results I would've measured the plastic's width. To improve the design, I would've used a fifth plastic type to expand my results.
3238	2	1	0	?	The plastic that were being stretched all come out to a different length. On the second trial of stretching the some plastics someway the numbers would foreby the some give or take a few. The student could have improved the experiment by leaving the plastic to stretch larger and see if there is a different result. Also the student doesn't know if each type of plastic is the exact same so the strength could have varied and changed the whole experiment.
3239	2	2	3	?	The polymer type B had the greatest stretchability because its average amount stretched was the greatest. At 22.5mm stretched average it was higher than type D's 20mm average.Types A and C were less stretchable than type B by 11.5mm and 9mm respectively. The valiability of the results could be increased by the reasing the amount of trials. This way the averages would be closer to what they should be. The design also could be improved by starting the weight of the weights. 2000kg and 200g would be a kings difference on results.
3240	2	0	1	?	To test four different polymer for stretchability the student would need to record the data from the investigation to procedure, and perform a second trial exactly just like the first trial. Two ways a student could improve the experimental design and the validity of the result is first off, could try two more 'test' trials to see if the plastic type and amount stretched can be improved, second off, could use the conclusion to help out with the experiment.
3241	2	1	1	?	In conclusion, the strongest plastic that held up is plastic type B. In trail one was stating 22mm and trail; two was 23mm, while plastic type A got 10mm for the first trail and 12mm for the second trail. So over all the plastics, type B  is the one that can hold up the longest and is more durable. One way this lab could do is to add more trails. Then another improvement could be to explain eely in the produre to get three more bags.
3242	2	2	3	?	a) After evaluating the student's data, it appears that plastic type A stretches the least (10mm- 12mm) and plastic type B stretches the most (22mm-23mm). Therefore sample B is the most stretchy.  b) The student could have improved the experimental validity by specifying how heavy the weights were that were being added to the bags. Another way to improve the experiment design would be yo test the experiment in multiple trials, using a different length of time each trial.
3243	2	3	3	?	a) From the data, I've seen, I can conclude that plastic type B stretched the most even though between both trials it only increased 1 mm, 22-23. But on the otherhand plastic type D only hit 20 and stayed 20, still being close to B.   b) I know two way that I could improve the experiment; first the student should say how long each plastic should be; second, the student should say how much weight is being put on each time.
3244	2	3	3	?	According to their, the students results, plastic sample A is the least stretchy while sample B was the most stretchy. I do not, however, believe these results are valid. They should have used exact measurement when saying to "add weight" to the clamp. Another thing they could have done was added a third trial for increased accuracy, and to that same note come up with an average stretch distance for each sample, making it even more accurate.
3245	2	1	1	?	So they should of told us if we have to wait five wen for all three bottles or do we time it different one another. Also do we use the same length for all three plastic bag or are we spouse to use a different length for all three plastic bag.
3246	2	2	2	?	A) The student are trying to figure out which plastic can stretch more than the other without braking adding weights.   (B) The students could improve the experiment if they were to add a specific number of weights to each plastic. Also having the same measurement size for each plastic.
3247	2	3	2	?	a) Based on the data, plastic type B had the most stretchability followed by type A,C, and lastly type A.   b) One way the students could have improved their experiment design would be to identify a set mass of the weights. The students also identify a certain amount of type to have the same resistance.
3248	2	1	1	?	As we can come to a close the students in results were very close numbers when they did trial 1 and then trial 2, we can see that when they stretched both trials they got the same answers 20mm. This is what we can conclude about the data.
3249	2	1	1	?	From the data, it's drawn that type B has the most stretchability than the others. In trial one, it held the highest weight count for 20 weights. In the second trial it had a total of 23. For the experiment to give a more accurate result, the weights should have been added on past the limit for each plastic. That way data could show how many weights each held until breaking, strengthening the results for or against the hypothesis.
3250	2	0	0	?	A) Both plastics no matter how far its stretch, weather its in trial one or trial two, is that their both about the same (mm) maybe off by one or two.   B) Two switch up the difference from trial 2 to trial 1. Also to use different plastics to see different results.
3251	2	2	2	?	a. From the data table it can be said that plastic A is the most stretchy and that the other plastics have little to no stretchability.   b.   1. The length of the plastics need to be kept constant.   More trials need to be done, at the minimal, three.
3252	2	3	3	?	(A) After finding all of the measurements and recording the data, I can see that plastic type B has the most stretchability. Then  plastic type S, then C and finally A, which has the least amount of stretchability.
3253	2	3	3	?	The student can conclude that type B was the most stretchable while type A was the least. The student should have given an exact length for each plastic to be stretched. The student should also have the exact amount of weighs that was to be applied.
3254	2	1	1	?	A) The student tested the plastic 4 different types they altumetly had the same close 1 to 2 mm streach rate.  B) The student could have stated how much each whight should whigh he could have also changed the results then messure or record the difference.
3255	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic type A was able to overall stretch the most compared to other three plastic types.   b) The students could have improved the validity of the results by having more trials and by having a control group.
3256	2	0	0	?	The plastic streched more and more each time.   I think that the student could have been more specific when writing out the steps because it would have been easier to understand the data.
3257	2	1	1	?	a. Based on the student's data I conclude that plastic type D has the most stretchability than all the other plastic types. In both trials they stretched to 20mm while the other plastic types didnt that far.   Two ways the student would have improved the experimental design or  validity is 1) did one more trial to make sure its possible stretchability. 2) used same materials.
3258	2	2	2	?	A. The students concluded plastic B can stretch the farthest, but plastic A is the most durable.  B) The students could had a control and the students could have made the samples the same size.
3259	2	0	0	?	One way the student could improve the experiment better is by putting the plastic in both directions at the same time. Another way he could improve is he could add heavier weights to get better data.   In conclusion when he added the weights to one end that made the plastic stretch and, increasing its size.
3260	2	0	0	?	The conclusion
3261	2	1	1	?	Based on the student's data, the conclusion can be made because their is nothing to the test the results to. This experiment can be improved by measuring the initial length at the polymer to show the difference in length that the weight did and allow for a conclusion. This can also improve by adding a control to test against their variables to add to the validity.
3262	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic B is the stretchial polymer or plastic low of the ones tested it can stretch the most. Plastic A stretched the least.   b) 1) The student needs to specify how many weights should be added and how much those weights shall weigh.   2) The student should also have said how much of the plastic should be hanging off the table as this should remain the same for every plastic type they should be placed at the same points on the table.
3263	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data you can't really come to a conclusion because there isn't enough data. Two ways the student could improve the experiment are by adding more trials to the data is better and by stating that all of the plastics were cut to the same length you would want to do that because if the plastics aren't all the same lengths that could affect the data.
3264	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic B stretched the most amount  therefore it is the most stretchable. b) The students could have measured the length after 10 minutes instead of 5 minutes. They could have added more weights.
3265	2	3	3	?	Plastic B had the greatest stretchability the students should have included how much the weights they used weighed and how many weights they used. Also they should have included another trial.
3266	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic B stretches the most.   b) The student should have kept the length and width of the plastic samples constant and specified how much weight to attatch.
3267	2	3	3	?	a.) Plastic type B has the highest stretchabilty.  b) The students could have improved the experimental design and validity of their results. They could have specified the amount of weights and kept that constant. Also, they could have done a third trial for each plastic to increase accuracy.
3268	2	0	0	?	For plastic tube A and b the amount stretched went up a point. For plastic tube c it went down a pont and for D the plastic stretched stayed the same.   They could of improved by letting the plastic sit for a min.
3269	2	2	2	?	My conclusion based on this data is that plastic type "B" stretched the most in both the first and second trial. One way this student could have made their experiment better would be by re arranging their procedure and doing # 7 before #6. Another way they could have improved would be by allowing the reader to know how heavy the weights were that were used in this experiment.
3270	2	2	2	?	a). Plastic type B is the most stretchable.   b). The validity of the experiment would be improved if a control were added. The control in this experiment would be a plastic hanging off the table with no weight for five minutes. Also, the experiment does not specify whether to use the same amount of weight for all plastics or the specific amount thats suppose to be used. To improve the experiment the specific amount of weight should be mentioned and should be held constant for all plastics.
3271	2	0	0	?	Two ways that the students could have improved the experimental design and for validity of the results was probelly trying the experiment with a bigger cup not a small cup. Second would be then potting more weight to the cup and then maybe their would be a difference on the experiment.
3272	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B stretched more than any of the other types of plastic in both of its trials.   b) One way the student could have improved their experimental results would be to have a third trial of all the practice to enhance precision and accuracy of results. Another way to improve thes results would be to average the figures from the trials.
3273	2	3	2	?	The conclusion that can be made from this students investigation is that plastic type B stretched the most. To improve the experimental design the students can give a better understanding on how to hold down the plastic and where to put the clamp. They should give more measurements for that so their results do not vary so much.
3274	2	1	1	?	Based on the data each plastic improved on T2. Two ways they could have improved the experiment was by making sure they used the sam weight for each trial and also use a stop watch to get exact time.
3275	2	2	2	?	In conclusion plastic type B has the most stretchability. Also plastic type A has the least stretchability. The student could have had another trial.
3276	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data you can draw a conclusion that plastic type B stretched the farthest amount. One way the student could have improved the experimental design would be by adding more trials. Another way would be by controlling the measurement of the plastic and weights so each are the same.
3277	2	2	1	?	Most plastics stretched 1 to 2 inches longer, one didn't stretch at all and another actually become shorter. I think this data is wrong. When you tape the plastic, tape an inch on the table then add the inch to the final result. They should also put a certain amount of weights.
3278	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, out of the 4 tested polymer plastics, plastic type B proved to have the best stretchability because it stretched 22 mm during T1 and 23 mm during T2. One way the students could've improved their experiment is to preform a 3rd trial so results can be proved to be more reliable. A second way they can improve is to run a trial where the plastics hold weights for maybe 10 minutes so they could conclude if maybe some plastics would break in the process of being stretched.
3279	2	2	2	?	One way the students could have improved the experimental design is to add how much weight they were putting on the plastics. Another way they could have improved the experimental design is to do another trial.
3280	2	3	3	?	Based on the data, I would conclude that plastic type B stretched the most, as it had an average of 22.5 mm stretched. One way the student could have improved his experiment design would have been to add another trial so that the results would have been more valid the to more results to a range. Another way the student could have improved his experiment would have been to give a specific mass for the weights attached to the plastic so that other people can do the experiment and get the same results.
3281	2	0	0	?	The conclusion that can be drawn from the label is that the second trial was more succesful at being stretched out. Two ways that the students could of improved the design of the results are increasing the amount of time the plastic was stretched. Also hey could of changed the amount weight was on the clamp to. To me it would be also helpful if a control was run to compare results.
3282	2	3	3	?	(a) From the given results, one can conclude that plastic type B is the stretchiest type out of the four that were tested.   (b) However, there are same ways that the validity of this experiment could be improved. One improvement could be to specify the original length of the plastic. If the sizes vary, the data found is useless. Incomparable. Another improvement to this experiment could be to perform more trials. You can not obtain consistency, a needed ingredient in an ideal experiment, in only two trials.
3283	2	2	2	?	a)In conclusion the plastic type D stretched the most compared to any other plastic.  b) One way the experiment could be improved would be to keep the length of the given plastic equal. Another improvement would live to add the same amount if weight to each plastic and lot the weight the procedure.
3284	2	0	0	?	a. In conclusion, after five minutes the plastic types were stretched longer for plastics A and B. Plastic c decreased in trial 2, and plastic d stayed the same.  b. Two ways, the student could have improved the experiment are: 1. Added or decreased the weights amount in trial 2.2. let the weights hang for longer or shorter amount of time.
3285	2	0	1	?	The student should have wrote the weight of the structer, the color and more about the size.
3286	2	1	1	?	a) I can conclude from the results plastic type A stretched the most out of all the other plastic types.   b) They could of added more details to the procedure. For example to record all our data.
3287	2	1	1	?	A) The plastic type B was the stretchiest and A was the least stretchy.   B) One way this experiment design could be improved is have multiple times recording the stretch length like 5, 10, 15 minutes. The other way is adding more weights.
3288	2	2	2	?	I concluded that plastic type B was the most stretchable.   One way they could improved this experiment was by completing three or more trials.   A second way they could improve this experiment is to limit the weights they put on the plastics then have it go up as a whole.
3289	2	2	2	?	In the experiment, plastic type B stretched the most with 222-23mm in length, type A stretched least with 10-12mm in stretching. C stretched the second least (14-13mm) and D closely followed B (20mm in stretching). It is very clear that plastic type B has the most stretchability and type A has the least. To improve this experiment one could designate how much weight should be applied to the clamp for each repeating of procedure on each of the four plastics. Also, a control group could be added.
3290	2	2	2	?	A conclusion I can draw from this experiment is that the second trial (T2) had increased the amount of plastic stretched, all expert plastic type C which relieved the same two ways the students could have improved the experimental designs was by measuring the weights for each clamp and another way was to have a third trial.
3291	2	1	1	?	A conclusion could be that different plastics have different amounts that it could be stretched at. The student could have improved the experimental design by having 3 trials an varity of cups.
3292	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type B stretched the most during both trials of this experiment.   b) First, the student should have used the same length of each plastic. Finally, the student should make sure each type of plastic is hanging the same length off the table.
3293	2	3	3	?	The conclusion drawn from the data would be that plastic type B stretches the most, because it was the longest length after being stretched. The student could improve the experiment by adding more trials, to get more data to drawn make accurate conclusion from. The student could also cut the plastic to the same starting length in order to ensure that they all have the same start, and the results would be more accurate.
3294	2	1	1	?	A) The whole procedure worked out well. I think the results came out to be almost the same when they repeated it.  B) I think the student should have 'did' a third trial. Also I think he should have chase two different plastics to see how each one does with clamps hanging from them on the table
3295	2	3	3	?	In conclusion to the polymer investigation lab, it is clearly known that plastic type B was the most stretchable while plastic type A was the least, according to the data collected. To improve the experiment the lab testers should have made sure that the plastic were all at the same length at the stare and recorded it. Also, they should've made sure they used the same weights.
3296	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, The polymer plastic that was the most stretchable, according to our experiments data, was plastic type A (10mm-12mm). The polymer plastic that we found to be the least stretchable was plastic C which actually shrank, it went from Mumm to 13 mm. Plastic B stretched Ma and plastic D was imperious to the weight and didn't change or . A couple of ways the students can improve this experiment would be to at more trials to increase the validity and they can specify the actual weight that they used for the experiment.
3297	2	2	2	?	(a) In conclusion it seems that plastic B has stretched the most because the highest it stretched is 23mm and all the others we lower at 12,14 and 20mm.  (b) One way the student could have improved their experiment is to tell in the prosedure how long to cut the plastic so they all start at the same size. Therefore these results are not valid because we don't know if they were on even length when they started.
3298	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B stretched the most in both T1 and T2.   b) The students could have improved by stretching it differently, in different ways, that way you can see better, as to which B stretches the best. Another way it could have improved would be by it saying to do things in the same place with the same measurements.
3299	2	1	1	?	A). The data that  the students recorded is incorrect.   B). Two ways the students could have improve  the experiment by adding a control and by adding another performance trial to the experiment.
3300	2	3	3	?	After looking at the data, it showed that plastic type B stretched the most at 22 mm(T1) and 23 mm(T2). Two ways the experiment could have been improved could be to tell us the types of plastics and their starting lengths. Also, to specify the amount of weight thats put or in step four.
3301	2	2	2	?	A) The conclusion I drew based on the student's data is that plastic type B stretches the most.  B) Two ways the student can improve the design and validity at the results is to state how much weight you  add every five minutes and what types of plastics were used for this experiment.
3302	2	1	1	?	When looking at the students data I can conclude that plastic type A had the least stretchability reaching (10-12)mm. On the other hand plastic type B had the greatest amount of stretchability reaching (22-23)mm. Two ways the student could improve his experiment design is: 1 he could have used a control to have a more controlled experiment. 2 he could have done each plastic type with more intervals such as 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 20 minutes and so on. This would increase the validity of the results.
3303	2	2	2	?	The student could have improved the experimental design or validity of the results by: 1. Having all plastic pieces be the same length. 2. Add the exact amount of weights to each new point of plastic.
3304	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data I conclude that plastic type B has the greatest ability to stretch. The students could have improved their design by specifying the mass of the weights attached so the experiment can be repeated, and they could have done more trials, so they could have more confidence in their results.
3305	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type B is the stretchable polymer plastic.   b) The student should have specified a constant length to be used for each trial. Also, the students should have specified the weight being used.
3306	2	2	2	?	A) 1 After looking at the students data their conclusion may be, Plastic type "B" stretches as the most because in T1 stretched 22 mm and on T2 it got 23. Comparing with the other plastic type which they lower tan 22 and 23.   B) Two ways the students could improved their experimental design are.   1) Do it again.   2) Compare their results with another group.
3307	2	2	1	?	a.Based on the students' data it can be concluded that plastic type B stretched the farthest. It stretch 22mm in T1 and 23mm in T2.  b.Two ways to improve the validity are to say how many pounds the weights are and to state the exact name of the plastics, and not just bathe them A, B, C, and D. This would make the experiment more accurate.
3308	2	1	1	?	A) The students data shows that polymers B and D were the stretchiest while the plastic types A and C were not that flexible. B) The student could have improved his or her experimental design by using a control which he or she can compare the results to a plastic used. The student may also perform more trials in order to get an avenge amount stretched (mm).
3309	2	3	3	?	I say that type B plastic would work the best because it stretches more. One way the students could have made their experiment is could have used specific type of weights. ( We didn't know the weight of them). They could have also repeated the trials.
3310	2	2	2	?	a.) It is evident that polymer D had the longest growth in length from start to finish in both trials. It is ultimately the most flexible or stretchable substance out of the 4 given in the experiment.   b) 1) The polymer should be attached with a sturdier applicant than tape.   2.) The ammount of added weight should be specified.
3311	2	2	2	?	(A) In conclusion I think that the plastic type "B" stretched the most, and plastic "A" is the least stretchable.   (B) Two ways the students could have improven the experiment was by one telling us what type of plastic to use, and two, telling us how fare to hang it of the table,
3312	2	0	1	?	A conclusion that can be drawn from the data is plastic B is the strogest tape out of the other 3 plastics. (T1-T2, T2-T3) plastic D was the second strongest and plastic A was the weakest plastic and the second weakest was plastic C. Two way the student could have improved the experiment is by using tighter tape for tyding the plastic and act the 4 top plastic types in the wand.
3313	2	2	2	?	Based on the data, I can conclude that plastic type D is the strongest of the four types tested. In order to improve experimental design or validity of the results the student could have specified and exact number or weights added to the clam, and the kind or weights and exact weight that he was adding to each piece of plastic. Also, he could have measured each piece or plastic exactly the same in order to be more precise.
3314	2	3	3	?	A) Based on the students data plastic B is the most stretchability and plastic A is the less stretchable plastic.   B) In the students' experiment they could of stated exactly what was the measurement of the first type of plastic so they can repeat it accurately for the other plastics. They could of also deskmen the exact weigh of the clamp and how much wigged the eighths they add to get an more accerated result for the stretchability of the plastics.
3315	2	1	1	?	The conclusion is there might have been some problems in the student's experiment. Some validity issuses could be that the five minutes the weights and clamps that had to hang could have not been a fuller exact 5 minutes. Also, the spot were the plastics were placed could not have been the same spot every time.
3316	2	2	2	?	A) A conclusion that can be drawn based on this data is plastic type B has a higher stretchability than the other types of plastics. The independent variable is the type of plastic. The dependant variable is how far it can be stretched   B)The ways the student could have improved the experimental design would be to actually name the plastics and to tell us what the actual length was in the beginning. By telling us the name we could replicate this experiment better. By telling the length of the plastic in the beginning, we could see the change that occured.
3317	2	2	2	?	a.) The conclusion of this experiment was to find the stretchability of different plastics. In the data results I found that plastic type B has the most stetchability of the four plastics in both trial 1, and trial 2.   B.) What were the weight of the weights that were used. How long was the length of the string that was attached to the weights.
3318	2	3	3	?	Based on the results, plastic A is the least stretchable and plastic B is the most stretchable. The students could improve the experiment by giving the exact amount of weight to be used so that the experiment can be redone it needed. The student could also make each plastic sample the same starting length to rule out length as a variable.
3319	2	1	1	?	My hypothesis was correct, the second trial didn't stretch the plastics further than the first trial.   One way the student could have improved the experiment would be describing the length of the plastics before being stretched. Second, the student could have also allowed the plastics to hang for a longer period of time to gather more accurate results.
3320	2	1	1	?	Based on the following data on the polymer investigation, I can make a conclusion that the plastic D type is the most stretchy. Also the trials very similar but only average by 12 mm because the stretchyness. either increased or decreased. If a student were to complete this experiment all over again I would suggest that they change the way they set up the experiment because it was very complicated which leads to many errors. The students should also test the experiment 2 more times to see a range of results.
3321	2	2	2	?	The conclusion that I have drawn from this expirament is that plastic type B was able to stretch the most. One way the student could have improved this experiment would have been they could have done a third trial to ensure the validity of the plastics' strechability. The student also could have been more specific in their procedure. They should have specified the plastic type to use in step one and say what measurement type to use in their experiment.
3322	2	1	2	?	a.) Based on the data it seems type is amount stretched is the same. The other plastic types stretched differently on both trials.   b.) The students could run more trials to get a good result and they could measure the plastic after they put the clamps on the plastic and before they put the weights on.
3323	2	2	2	?	A)What the data table shows is that plastic type A and B stretched additional length in trial second trial. Plastic C stretched length in trial two and D didn't stretch farther in trial two then one.  (B)They can increase the number of trials for those experiment, furthermore they should give the exact amount of the weight the use for experiment using grams.
3324	2	2	2	?	Based on this data i can conclude that plastic typ B was the most stretchable at 22mm the first trial and 23 mm the second trial. One way to improve the validity is to have more trials minimum 3. And another way to improve the validity is instead of timing, you should see how much weight it can hold before breaking by adding more weight at intervals.
3325	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data, I can examin that plastic type D was prefarrened correctly because the 2 trials recorded the same length but plastic type B stretched farthest. Two ways the student could improve the experimental design or or validity is to create more trials to test the stretch and also state the weight size and make sure he put the exact weight measure for each plastic type and trial tested.
3326	2	2	2	?	According to the data shown plastic type B was the strongest and plastic type A was the least strongest. The groups' experimental design would of been positively improved if they include what plastic they were using instead of saying " one type of plastic " if the group included the original length of the plastic it would of much both their experiment and validity better.
3327	2	1	1	?	Based on the student data it shows that T2 and T1 are showing that most of the experiments change on the second trial, and a couple stayed the same as the first trial.   The students could have improved their experiment by listing what the type of plastic is on the graph. They also showed have wieghed each weight to make sure they are all the same. They also could have hung the wights from the same distance on the plastic.
3328	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic A stretched out the most with 2 mm. b) The student could have had another trial to test validity. And also have started out with the same length for every plastic.
3329	2	2	2	?	A) Based on the table below I can infer that T2 stretched out more than T1.   B) Two way the student could have umbral there exerimanta is is one thy could have gave how long the plastic was befor they stretched it so I can now the amount of the length stretched. Another thing word have to be is what they taped it the should of have used something more stronger lile another clamp for both end of th plastic and on each end.
3330	2	1	1	?	The sample of plastic A stretch the least, meaning it was the strongest. The sample of plastic D stretch the most, meaning it was the weakest.   The student could have improve the experiment by having a control sample plastic A,B,C, and D, with no added weights. Another way to improve this experiment would be to have more trials for each kind of plastis.
3331	2	0	0	?	In conclution, plastic type A and B did stretch but plastic type C got smaller and plastic type D stayed the same.   The student could have found another way to stretch the plastics. Their data could have been put clearer also.
3332	2	0	0	?	In conclusion what all of the plastic type (A,B,C,D) stretched at least a kilometer per trial. Two ways the student could have improved the experiment was to have a controlled sample for each type plastic before they were stretched and the student should have been more specific about  what type of plastic they used.
3333	2	0	0	?	A conclusion based on the student's data is that plastic type D was stretched the most. Two ways that the student could have improved the experimental design would be to vary the weights and amounts placed on the plastic, and to vary the time for  the trials.
3334	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data, I can conclude that plastic Type B is the most stretchable and sturdy polymer just because it stretched more than any of other plastic types in both trials. Two ways the students could have improved The experimental design and or or validity of the results would be by including in the procedure, the size of the weights used and the names of the different plastics incase another student wanted to replicate this experiment. Also he or she could have told us the starting size of the sample plastic prior to it being stretched
3335	2	2	2	?	A. Plastic type 'D' had the most stretchability compared to the other plastics tested.   B. They should have been more specific about their mass (g) of the weights used. They should have also stated how long their plastic samples were at the beginning of the experiment, and how long after they were stretched.
3336	2	2	2	?	Conclusion; plastics B and D stretch significantly more than plastics A and C. The students could have improved their design by starting with plastics of all the same length. They also should  named a common value for all the weights.
3337	2	3	3	?	a. That substance B stretched the fastest and then D, then C and finally A would stretch the least amount.   b. The student could have given the orginal length of the plastics. The student could have specified how much the clamp and the weigths weighted.
3338	2	3	3	?	A) From this data, it can be concluded that plastic type B is the most flexible because it has the longest length stretched in both trial 1 and 2 additionally. Plastic type A is the least flexible since it had the shortest length stretched in both trials. B) One way the experimental design could be improved is by adding more trials for each plastic because more trials lead to more accurate results. Additionally the design could show how much weight is used on each plastic because if the weights are not the same for each plastic and trial, the results are clearly not valid.
3339	2	3	3	?	In conclusion type A is the strongest plastic and type B is the weakest plastic.   In this experiment they should have more trials than just 2.   They also should have put how much weight they used and if it was the same amount of weights.
3340	2	2	2	?	The conclusion that was drawn was that plastic type (A) had the longest length after being stretched with weights. The students could have improved the experiment by having more than two trials, and also by being more specific about the amount of weights that were used.
3341	2	2	2	?	Plastic type D is the most durable. It had the most amount stretched. The student should have wrote in the measurements of the before stretched length and how many weights to add when stretched.
3342	2	3	3	?	a) Based on the results, plastie type A was the least flexible, while plastic type B was the most flexible.   b) 1) The student doesn't say where on the table to tape the tap edge of the sample. 2: The student uses samples with varying length, therefore making his results invalid.
3343	2	2	2	?	My conclusion is that plastic type B stretch the farthest than the others. Two ways could of improved their experiments is adding more trials and adding weights to the bags.
3344	2	3	3	?	According to the data, plastic B seems to have stretched the most, while plastic A stretched the least.   The experiment could be improved in two ways: The plastics' length was not constant and will affect the results. The plastics should be a set length. The weight of the weights should be specified so that others may similarly recreate the procedure.
3345	2	3	3	?	A conclusion I can draw, based on the start ends data, is that plastic type B had stretched the most at the end of both trials. Also, I can draw the conclusion that type A stretched the least after both trials. 2 ways the students could have improved the experiment or validity of the results are to control variables and perform more trials. They could have improved the experiment by controlling the number of weights, type of clamp, and the height that the plastic hung from.
3346	2	2	2	?	a) One conclusion that can be made is that the strongest plastic is "A" because it stretched the least in both trials. b) One way the students could have improved this experiment would have been to also test a control. This experiment needs something to compare  to or else the results are not totally valid. Something else the students could fix is to be more specific in this procedure. Most of the procedure is very vague it would be quite different to try to re-perform this experiment with this procedure. For example, the procedure says: " Add weights to the clamp and allow them to hang for five minutes". The reader does not know the weight or size of the weights her does he know where to put them.
3347	2	3	3	?	a) The conclusion has been drawn that plastic type B stretches the most.  b) Two ways to improve this experiment would be be tell how long to cut each plastic and how heavy the weights should be.
3348	2	1	1	?	I conclude that plastic type because the strogest  because it was the strongest the first and second trail.   They could have made none trails and add more weights on the plastic see how had it works.
3349	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data i ca n say that plastic A was the strongest because it barely stretched. Two ways in which the experimental design or  validity of the results could have been improved were to label the plastics and in put the length of the plastic before it  was stretched.
3350	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B stretched the most out of all the plastics. Therefore plastic type B is the weakest.   b. two ways the students could have improved their experiment is clampy how much weight is put on to the clamps. Also, they should do one more trial to make the experiment more accurate.
3351	2	3	3	?	Based upon the students data,  and  displays that plastic type B is the most flexible compared to the other three types of plastic. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design would be to do the standard 3 trials, instead of two and also to further improve the student's validing of their results would be to record a before and after measurement as well as the averages to his table to make his more more clear or valid.
3352	2	3	3	?	The plastic that stretched the most was B.^ This student could improve by recordin the amount of weight used and having the same amount of weight for each, they could have also added the length of the plastics to show.
3353	2	1	1	?	The conclusion I can draw from based on the student's data is that A.B increased, while C decreased and D stayed the same. 2 ways the student could have improved the experiment is by 1st the way the decided to do the experiment. They should have checked to see if after the 1st trial if it would go back to its normal form. 2nd: They should have mentioned what the size was before the experiment was started.
3354	2	1	1	?	Plastic D is concictast with how much it stretches state that they are using different plastics state the weight that was added.
3355	2	1	1	?	I conclude plastic polymer D has the most stretchability and polymer plastic A has the least stretchability. The student should have ran two test on each plastic with a brand new piece then averaged the totals together for (T1) and (T2) for each trial. The student also should have set how this piece of plastic is "hanging freely" that tells me nothing or how to repeat it.
3356	2	3	3	?	a) My conclusion based on the students data is that plastic type B is the most stretchable because for both trials it stretched more than all the other plastic types. b) Two ways the student could have improved the design could be to specify how many weights they added to the clamp and they could of also used something sturdier stronger to hold down the plastic so it wouldn't come off the table.
3357	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the student's data, plastic B stretched the most by 22-23 mm and plastic A stretched the least with about Mumm. Plastic had the second strongest stretchability with 20mm and then plastic with 13-14 mm.  b) The students could have improved the experiment by recording the average amount stretched. They also could have made sure all the plastics had same beginning length.
3358	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type A was mide of the least amount of polymers because it stretched the least, and plastic B was the most.   b. The students could have written the measurements of the plastics before they stretched them, and they also could have specified how much weight they held part on the clamps.
3359	2	2	2	?	a) According to the results, T2 had stretched the most mm than T1.  B) The student should have said how big the clamp should have been, and how heavy the weights should have been.
3360	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B stretched the most of all. They should have specified the mass of the weights used.
3361	2	3	3	?	Based on the data I can include that plastic B has the most strechability. It had the most streching for both the first and second trial, 22mm and 23 mm. To improve this experiment I would specify how much weight used in each type of plastic and I'd make that a controled variable. I would also include the length of the plastic before it was stretched so I can get a better idea on how stretchable the plastic really is
3362	2	3	3	?	A) Based on the data I have seen, plastic B seemed to be stretched out the most, meaning it's too durable. And plastic A seemed to be stretched out the least, meaning it's more durable.   B) One way to improve this experiment is by telling us the amount of weight the student added to the clamp. Also, to get better results the student should've conducted a third trial.
3363	2	2	2	?	Based on the data that is recorded is that they are different here of them had the same length when starting and plastic A stretched the most.   This students could  improve this experiment by having the four sample all the same length also to could at told us how much the weights should be and should not change.
3364	2	2	2	?	a.) Plastic type B stretched the furthest with 22 mm on T1 and 23 mm on T2. Plastic type A stretched the least with 10mm on T1 and 12mm on T2.   b.) One way would to have the same starting length for each plastic. A second way would be to use different weights that weigh more or less.
3365	2	2	1	?	Plastic A was the strongest of the 4 plastics as it stretched the least while plastic D was the weakest as it stretched the most.   One way the students could of had a better experiment is to do more trials as it would give more precise data. The second way to improve the experiment would be to try the plastics in different conditions such as heat or cold to see if that affects the strength.
3366	2	0	0	?	Well the "T2" was higher except for "C"   The student could have told us how much time we have in between before we check again.
3367	2	2	2	?	(A) Based on the students data it shows that plastic type B is the best choice because it stretched up to 23mm which is farther than the others.   (B) The two ways that they can make the experiment better are adding more trials, and adding more controls to make sure that everything is constant.
3368	2	1	0	?	A) When testing our hypothesis whe had came to a conclusion. It seems to be that when we tested the plastic type by stretching it we had found out that when stretched a second time the numbers seemed to have went up and then on plastic type D it stood at 20.   B) The students could have improved their experimental design if they would have told us what types of plastic they had used. Also, they could have added how many times they did both trials.
3369	2	3	3	?	Plastic B was the most stretchable .It stretched 22 mm that and 23mm that 12 plastic A was the least stretchable.It only stretched 10mm in Trial 1 and 12mm in trial 2.Plastic D was the 2nd stretchiest with 20mm in the first trial and 20mm in the 2nd trial. And  plastic C was the 3rd stretchers with Mumm in the 1st and 2nd 13mm in the 2nd trial to improve the experiment they could have used the same length of plastic preceding the stretching.
3370	2	0	0	?	Plastic Type D stretched the most but on the second trial plastic Type A made the most difference. To improve this project the student could have hung the plastic from a higher surface to see if gravity would stretch it more. Also, the student could have put weights in the middle of the plastic to test if its middle would stretch more and be more durable.
3371	2	2	3	?	Based on the data, plastic B is the most stretchable and plastic A is the least stretchable.   The students could have improved their experimental design and validity by attaching the clamp to the same place each time. The also should have had a control, which wood have been the plastic with the weights.
3372	2	1	0	?	The plastic that streched the most would be plastic type A because it went from 10 to 12 when the others increased by one or none at all. The students could've tested more plastics, or use a different method to strech the plastic.
3373	2	1	2	?	In conclusion, according to the results of the experiment, On the other hand plastic type A had the least amount of stretchability leaving plastic types C and D somewhere in between them. Two ways the students could have improved the experiment would be testing each plastic type one or two times for more reliability. On the student could have tested more plastic types or added different weights.
3374	2	1	1	?	(A) Plastic type A had the most resistance it did not rip that much especially compared to plastic type B.   (B) Instead of letting them hang for 5 minutes make it less to be more effective.
3375	2	0	0	?	My conclusion is that plastic type D is best because the amount stretched stayed the same throughout test trial 1 and test trial 2. Two ways the students could have improved the experiment is allow the weights to hang longer than 5 minutes, and or add a heavier weight.
3376	2	1	1	?	a) Some plastics could stretch alot more than others. Plastic B stretched the most.   b. The students could added different weights on it and see if that changed the results.
3377	2	3	3	?	According to the student's data plastic types B seems to be the most stretchable and plastic type A seems to be the most durable. I think they should have done a third trial and specified a certain weight amount.
3378	2	2	2	?	(A) Based on the data, plastic material A was the most durable out of the four tested. This is because plastic A only stretched 10mm on the first trial, and 12 on the second, while plastic B stretched 22 and 23mm, plastic C 14 and 13, and plastic D 20 each time. This means that plastic A tolerated the weight on the clamp the best, and also that plastic B tolerated it the least.   (B) The students could have improved their experiment by using a variety of different weights to get a wider range of data, and by doing more trials to allow for the most accurate data possible.
3379	2	0	0	?	I think they should of kept the time the same because on this chart the times are differnt then the original time. So deffentally improve by keeping the time same.
3380	2	2	2	?	a) After viewing the data, it is clear that type B has the greatest stretchability with 22mm and 23mm, compared to type A's 10 mm and 12 mm. Also type D is the most accurate because 20 mm was reached in both trials.   b) This student can improve the design by specifying how many of what amount weight he used. This will give him more control over the experiment. Also, he should have a control plastic to compare the results of the others to. The control should be either stretchable or very durable.
3381	2	1	1	?	My conclusion is that plastic type is going to be more long because it look as if the student added more weight to it. The student could have improve this assignment by stating spicifically how much weight to add to the clamp, also this experiment could of been more successful if the student had different type of plastic sample to measure.
3382	2	2	2	?	Conclusion type B of the plastic was the least strong and stetches the most type of was the strongest and only stitched about mm. Two wats the student could of improve the experimental disen would have more trials and what is the length of the plastic.
3383	2	1	2	?	The conclusion based on the students data shows that with the same weights but different types of plastic are different. The students could have added more trials and added more weight to there experiment.
3384	2	0	0	?	Conclusion : Type D plastic has more stretchability because the a mount stretched is 20: T1 and 20: T2. On the first step the should be more specific for the type of plastic. and for the fift step should include in what direction to measure the plastic type after re moving the weights.
3385	2	3	3	?	In conclusion, plastic type B has the most stretchability. One way to improve the experimental design is to make sure the, same amount of weight is used for each plastic. Another way to improve the experimental design is to run another trial.
3386	2	1	1	?	A. Plastic type A was Mumm that had changed the most. From trial 1 to trial 2 it had increased by a going from 10 to 12.   B: One way the students could ad improved they're experiment is by doing more track. Another way the students could ad improved there experiment is by adding heavyer weights to the bags.
3387	2	3	3	?	A) A conclusion that I can draw from the student's data is that plastic type B stretched the most. I know this is accurate because during the second trial it come to be about the same.   B) To ways the student could have improved the experiment are   1) He or she should have added how much each weighed and 2) He or she should have put the lengths of the plastics before they were stretched in her data.
3388	2	2	2	?	Considering the plastic was already stretched. It wasn't as strong as it should of been on the second trial. The student could of told how long the plastic was before it was stretched. He could of also told how heavy the weights were.
3389	2	0	0	?	The way they could had improved the experimental design or the validity results is by adding more to it to make it higher than it is.
3390	2	0	0	?	I conclude that all plastic type stretchability is good except D. The students could had improved the experimental design by all of the plastic being known in prior knowledge that it would stretch. Another way would be that they could of see how much of something it could hold.
3391	2	2	2	?	Plastic types And C were stiffer while types B and D stretched more. This student could have supposed this experiment by adding a third trial for more accurat data and by adding the original length of each peice of plastic to table that he  made. The original length would better the understanding of the data by whoever is reading the table because they would be able to see what length the plastic started at.
3392	2	1	1	?	1 way this student could have improvert this experiment B by doing more trials so their results done out better. Also they could have hung the weights for a longer period of time.
3394	2	1	1	?	The amount of stretched in T1 and T2 nie was a little different, T2 was greater than T1 in plastics A,B and C, but in plastic D they had the same amount of stretched.   What the student shoud do to improve his experiment is to add more trials.
3395	2	3	3	?	Based on the results of the experiment, plastic type B had the least overall stretch. Although the groups results are not valid. There are two ways to improve the experiment in an experiment, you should always construct 3 trials to validate your results also, all of the samples should be exactly the same length.
3396	2	2	2	?	A) Plastic B stretched the most out of all therefore plastic B has the greatest level of stretchability.  B) The studen could have changed the tested variable the 2nd trial or he or she could have preformed an additional trial.
3397	2	2	2	?	To improve the validity of the trial, the student could add another trial for each of the plastic strips. To improve the experimental design, the student should mention the exact amount of the weights used on the plastic.
3398	2	3	2	?	Based on the student's investigation, I conclude that plastic types B and D are weaker polymers than plastic types A and C. Both B and D stretched much farther than A and C, which indicates that their polymer chains are not as strong. This student could improve the experimental design by using the same length of each sample to ensure that it is not a variable. Also, the student cold have used a set number of weight to make sure each sample was stretched by exactly the same forces.
3399	2	2	2	?	Conclusion: There was a small difference between the first and second trial for each plastic. The student could have improved the validity by doing a third trial. They could of improved the experimental design by stating how much each weighted weighed.
3400	2	2	2	?	Plastic B is the stretchiest plastic. It stretched the most out of both trials than all the other plastics.   The student could have specified what weight to use, so each plastic is being pulled with by the same weight. Different weights would affect accuracy negatively. The student also would have made sure the initials were of the same condition before being tested. For example, if a plastic was heated before the test it would stretch much more than a plastic that was cooled lastly. The student could make sure each test was in same environment.
3401	2	0	0	?	B) One thing they could've improved on would be the description on the steps, explain it more with detail. Another thing the students could work on would be to define the control.   A) Polymer Investigation.
3402	2	3	3	?	a) My conclusion is that plastic B was the stretchiest.   b) To improve experimental design and validity, the student should have specified how much weight he used to put on the ends of the clamps to stretch the plastic. Also, there should have been a control to compare the results to at the end. Also, there should have been a third trial so the experiment would be more valid.
3404	2	1	1	?	a) A conclusion of this procedure would indicate the plastics suability to a certain amount of weight and which if the plastics is more durable or unscratched than the others.   b) One way the students could have improved the experimental design would be stating the types of plastic used. Another way would be by determining how heavy the weights were on the clamps.
3405	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, based on these lab results plastic type B was stretched the farthest where Plastic A was stretched the least. One thing the student should do to improve their experimental design was list what kind of plastics they were instead of just naming them plastic A, plastic B etc. Also to improve their validity of the experiment they should have done twice trial to make sure that the first type trials were right.
3406	2	1	1	?	A conclusion of the student's rest of stretchability on polymers is, plastic type B is the stretchiest because it stretched out the most out off all the other plastics. Plastic type A would be the least stretchiest because it stretched out the least out of all the other plastic types. 2 ways the students could have improved the results are; increase the number of plastics being tested so that you have more results; are increase the number of plastics being tested so that you have more results, The second way is add more weights when stretching out the plastics so you can see how they react under more weight pressure.
3407	2	3	3	?	According to this data table plastic type B has the best stretchability than the stretchability of plastic type A.   B. Torbe more accurate say how much the weight weighs and that you have been using the same for the same amount of time. Also, make sure that the student is using the same amount of each plastic.
3408	2	0	0	?	The type stretched out differently depending on how much weight was put on them.
3409	2	1	1	?	Plastic polymer D has the most stretchability. It is more durable. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design an validity of the results, would be to have a few more trials and test the plastics for 10 minutes.
3410	2	1	1	?	In conclusion plastic type D based on our data stretched the most and plastic type A stretched the least. Type D stretched 20 for both trials while type a stretched10 for TI and 12 for T2. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design is to do another trial. Also to average the data out.
3411	2	1	2	?	a.) A conclusion based on the students data that they found out plastic type B was the best kind of plastic in this experiment and plastic Type A was the strongest.   b.) Two ways the student could have improved the experiment was to add more trials because 2 isn't enough and to tell us what to measure the length of the plastic with.
3412	2	2	2	?	A) The conclusion I can conclude from the data is that plastic B stretched the farthest, in both of the trials.   B) More trials.   Add another type of plastic.
3413	2	3	3	?	a)Plastic type B has the greatest stretchability, it stretched 22 and 23mm in both trials, while the other plastics stretched between 10 and 20 mm.   (b)The students could improve this experiment by adding more trials and by measuring mass of the weights.
3414	2	3	1	?	In this lab a student investigated the stretchability of four different polymer plastics: A, B, C and D. After two trials of each polymer the student concluded that plastic type B had the most stretching strength out of all that were tested. Two ways the student could have improved this experimental design was to make sure the tape that was holding the type of plastic was secure enough to withstand the weight of the clamps and other weights. Another improvement could have been to measure how much of the plastic you tape down.
3415	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type b was the only polymer plastic that was able to stretch out the most while plastic type A was the only polymer plastic that did not stretch out a lot.   b) One way that the student could have improved the experimental design would be to state how many weighs to add on the clamp. Another way that it could've been improved was to do more trials.
3416	2	2	2	?	A conclusion to be drawn is plastic type B is the most stenchy and plastic A is the strongest. Two ways to improve the experiment would be not say "exatly" and instant say "repeat steps" and to keep the length and width of the plastics constant
3417	2	2	2	?	a) A conclusion that I can draw based on the students data is that plastic "B" stretches alot more then any of the other plastics and plastic "a" is the least stretchy. I know that because plastic B's lowest trial was trial 1 with 22mm stretched whitch  higher than any of the others on the data table. Also plastic "a's" highest was in trial 2 at 12mm stretched and that the lowest on the board (besides its own t1). As you can see the conclusion I drew and why it is an accurate one. B.) Two ways it could have been improved was by - doing 3 trials bc the more trials the more accurate the experiment is and you're supposed to do 3. - he should have allowed the them to hang for more then 5 minutes in step 4. This way it will have more time to stretch.
3418	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data, the order of stretchability for the plastic types from greatest to least is B, D, C, A. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design or validity of the results would've been to use the same clamp for all the experiments and to use the same amount of weights.
3419	2	1	0	?	A conclusion I can draw is that plastic type B can be streched the most at 22 mm. Plastic type A was the weekest stretched at 10 mm.   Two ways are do a control and do it for a longer time.
3420	2	0	0	?	Both plastic types B and D stretched out of all the plastic types. He could have listed all materials first. Also he could have timed longer.
3421	2	2	2	?	The purpose for this experiment was to investigate which of four polymer plastics is best in terms of stretchability. According to the data table, plastic type B is higher regarding stretchability having the most mm's  in trial 1(22mm) and trial 2 (23 mm) while the least stretchable is plastic A having 10 mm in trial 1 and 12 mm in trial 2. Two way of improving result validity would be by testing not just stretchability but abrasion and other technique, 2) increasing the amount of trial for greater data.
3422	2	2	2	?	According to the data, plastic type D was most likely a hard type of plastic such as a water bottle or milk jug because it didn't stretch at all. Two ways the student could have improved the experiment would be to add the constant of how much weight was added. This is necessary so each plastic is being tested the same. A second way to improve the experiment is to use the same amount of plastic to make each trial more valid and similar.
3423	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B was the most stretchiest (22&23) and plastic type A stretched the least. Plastic type C (A&B) stretched the second least while plastic type D stretched the second most and was constant with 20mm. The students could have improved the design by creating more trials for more valid results. More trials can show a trend in the data while only two can't. The students also should have clarified how much the weights should weigh when added and when to add them to the clamp.
3424	2	1	1	?	After reading the recorded data from the investigation I can conclude that out of plastics A,B,C, and D plastic A and B both increased in kilometers opposed to C which decreased after the second trial while plastic D stayed the same during both trials. One way the student could have improved the experimental design would be by leaving the the clamps on the plastic for longer that 5 minutes, another would be to perform  a third trial.
3425	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B is the most stretchable with 22mm and plastic type A is the least stretchy, it only stretched 10mm. However in order for this experiment to be more valid you would have to keep the amount of weight and the length of each plastic the same if you were to do this, then you cold get a more accurate data.
3426	2	0	0	?	A. Based on the data I conclude plastic D is the stretchiest type of plastic. In both trials the plastic stretched the same amount (20mm)   B. One way the students could have improved the experiment was to record anything that went wrong.  Another way was to create a graph.
3427	2	0	0	?	My conclusion from the data is that A streched Ma, B streched Ma, C streched Ma and D stayed the same at 20mm.   Name the plastic being used. Add how much each plastic streched.
3428	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data, plastic type B is the stretchiest. One way they could have improved their experimental design is by creating a controlled length for each of the plastic types. Another way they could have improved the validity of the experiment is by adding more trials, because by performing more trials, flukes will not greatly affect the data.
3429	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data you can tell that on plastic type A and is continue to expand after they are streched a second time, while plastic type C and D do not. The student could have improved the experimental design by specifying how more weights they added to the plastic and adding a 3rd trial. Those 2 improvements would clear up everything in the experiment.
3430	2	3	3	?	A conclusion based on the table is that plastic type B was the strongest because stretched very much and it did not break. Two ways the students could have improved the experiment is specify how much weight to add to the plastics, and tell us how long the plastic samples should be.
3431	2	1	1	?	Conclusions drawn from this experiment is that plastic type D had stretched the most and is most flexible. While plastic type A had stretched the least and is the least flexible. The student could have stated what the types of plastic were though. So instead of seperating them by letters, who'd know exactly what they are. He should of also said how heavy the weights would be and made sure they were all kept the same weight.
3432	2	1	1	?	a) The type of plastic that stretched the highest amount of mm was plastic type B with a total of 45 mm. The record trial was more than the first trial as shown on the data table.   A way that the student could have improved the experimental design could be to stretch the plastic with your hands. A second way would be to wait more than five minutes to take the clarops off.
3433	2	3	3	?	Based on the results from the data table, the two trials do not differ much but the second trial had a couple longer length, so something could have been done differently from the first trial. The data should that plastic B stretched the farthest during the first trial and that it is the "stretchiest" the way the student could have improved the design or validity of the results is to repeat it 2 more trials exactly like before to ensure the results are accurate. A second way the student could have improved the experimental design is to say how much weight to add to each plastic, instead of just saying changed.
3434	2	3	3	?	a) In conclusion,plastic (B) streched the most endeng with a total of Mumm of streched plastic the least effective plastic in strechability was plastic (A),only streching a total of 22mm. b) (1) keep the amount of weights constant at a specific measurement.(2) Measure the plastics making them all the exact same size with specific numbers.
3435	2	3	2	?	Based on the students data I conclude that plastic type B stretched the most after five minutes. Plastic type A stretched the least. The students should of told us how many weights to add to the clamp and how much each weight Weighed. They also should of told us what type of plastic they were using.
3436	2	0	0	?	Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design  or validity of the results is they could be more specific  and could of wrote a conclusion saying which plastic type has more stretchability instead of drawing a data table. To show how much a the stretchability of each plastic.
3437	2	0	2	?	Based on the student's data plastic B and D stretched almost  twice as much as A and C so therefore, B and D are most likely made of branched chain polymers whereas A and C are made of linear polymers.The student could have  improved his or her procedure by clarifying where exactly the plastic were tape on the table in order to keep the data constant. If the tape was slightly higher we for some plastic this and have affected the data.The student should also clarify where  to put the clamp on the plastic for the same reasons.
3438	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic type B has the most tensile strength and plastic type A hav the least tensile strength. b) The student could have added a control and specified how much weights were added.
3439	2	2	2	?	a) Based on this data the students can conclude that plastic B is the stretchiest sample.   b) Two ways the students could improve their experiment would be to use a fresh sample for each trial, and they could also ad the same weight consistantancy for each sample.
3440	2	3	3	?	The conclusion is that type b plastic will stretch the furthest.   How much weight to rise.   Did a third trial.
3441	2	2	1	?	Based on the data table plastic. Types A, B, C and  D. Plastic A was the weakest because it stretched 22 mm to 23 mm. The student could have made this experimental better if the do more trail and the temperature of the plastic.
3442	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B is the polymer plastic with the highest stretchability because in both trials it had stretched the most. this experiment is not very valid because the different polymer plastics started at different lengths which may have an effect on how much it stretches. Also, the measure of the weights weren't specified.
3443	2	2	2	?	a. Plastic type A was the most streachable of all plastics tested.^b.One way the students could improve the experamental design and validity of the results is if they repeated the test on each plastic several times to ensure their results were correct. Another way that they could improve the design is if they specified amount of weight added to the clamps, then did trials with a different amount of weight.
3444	2	2	2	?	A) If you tape a plastic sample to a table and attach a clamp with weights on the bottom then plastic type C will stretch the longest because it is the thickest out of all the plastics.   B) Two ways the student could improve was to add more trials and make sure to use the same amount of weights for each plastic.
3445	2	2	2	?	a) The plastic that is most stretchable is plastic B, and the least stretchable is plastic A.   b) The student could have put the original length of the plastic into his table without the original length, it is actually impossible to see which one stretched the most. Plastic D looks like it stretched a lot according to the graph, but its original length could have been 20. The length of the plastic samples should also be the same. If there is one sample that is shorter than the others, the results will not be accurate.
3446	2	0	0	?	a) The conclusion to my investigation is at the end of my investigation plastic D came out even in the second trail for (T1) and (T2) when stretch.   b) Two ways the students could have improved the experiment is by telling us what plastic to use. For example, plastic bottle or wrap. Also, telling us how long do they want the plastic stretched.
3447	2	3	3	?	A. Plastic type A stretched the least out of the others in both trials. Plastic type is stretches the most in both trials. The student did not have a control variable.  The student could have measured each plastic before adding weights to make a controll each plastic type had to be the same length. Could have done more trials to make the experiment more valid
3448	2	1	2	?	a) Plastic type B is the most stretchable.  b). Make sure to say what kind of tape is being used; scotch tape would be too weak. Also, when saying "perform a second trial (T2) exactly like the first trial (T1), it can't be exactly the same. You have to  use new samples of each type of plastic (A, B, C  and D).
3449	2	1	1	?	Based on the experiment's data the plastics A through C stretched up and down. However plastic type D did not change at all in both trials. Plastic A's amount of stretching went up by 2. Plastic B's stretching amount went up by only one. Plastic type C also only went up by 1. The students could have improved the experiment by having more tests and having a control.
3450	2	2	2	?	A conclusion for this experiment is that there must have been a possible error somewhere making the data unreliable. This is because the results are inconsistent.   One way the student could have improve the experiment is to have done more trials. Another way the student could have improve the experiment is to measure the exact weight put on the clamp.
3451	2	2	2	?	In this investigation the conclusion is that plastic type B stretched the most in both trials. As you can see in the data table plastic type B stretched 22mm in the 1st trial. In the second trial plastic type B stretched 23mm. Plastic type A stretched the least in both trials. In the first trial plastic type A stretched 10mm and in the second trial it stretched 12mm. Two ways that this lab could have been improved would be to wait longer than 5 minutes to have them stretched and to make sure they are the same length.
3452	2	1	2	?	Based on the students data plastic type D stretched the most which means it is probably made of weaker polymers. Plastic type A stretched the smallest amount which means it is made of the strongest polymers.   Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design or validity of the results are to measure how thick in width each of the plastic strips were before and after the experiment, and to describe the difference in texture (if any) of each plastic.
3453	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic B stretched more than plastics A,C and D when weights are added to it.   1. How much weight was added. 2. What do they measure length in.
3454	2	1	0	?	A. From looking at the data plastic type B in trial one and two seem to be the strongest when weight was added to them.   B. The students could have improved the experiment by stating what type of plastic they were using for each. They also could have been a little more clear on some of their steps.
3455	2	2	2	?	During this experiment, it was proven that plastic sample A was the most durable, as it only moved between 10-12mm. The most flexible however, was plastic sample B. It stretched between 22-23mm. To improve the validity of this experiment, I would reccomend  specifying the amount of weight to add to the clamp. So that it can remain constant throughout the experiment.
3456	2	3	3	?	Type plastic B stretched the longest in (t1) to (T2) having measurements of 22 to 23. Ways the students could improve their design adding measurement of which to clamp weights and how heavy the weights are.
3457	2	1	1	?	I a conclusion based on the students data, is that plastic D streched the same amount at 20mm for trial 1 and trial 2. But plastic B streched the most. For trials 1&2 at 22mm for trial 1, and 23mm for trial 2.
3458	2	1	1	?	In conclusion plastic type D was the most stretchable (streched 20mm) and A was the least (streched 10mm). Therefor type D would be the best choice. The design could be improved by adding a controlled, and by adding the new much the weights were.
3459	2	0	0	?	a)Our hypothesis was collect that plastic type would stretch the farthest because it is the most durable.  (b)One way to improve their design was to add more to step seven like "repeat steps 1-6 with new pieces of plastic".
3460	2	3	3	?	A) A conclusion based on the students data is that plastic type B is the most stretchable whereas type a is the least and is more resiliant.  B) Two ways to improve the validity include adding a third because the data is different in the first 2 and a third would confirm accuracy a little more. Also contrats should be outlined such as keeping the original plastic samples. The same size before stretching specifying what meraments to go up by in weight added and specific amount of weight to add must be the same.
3461	2	3	3	?	In the conclusion of the experiment plastic type B stretched the most to 22 mm to 23 mm. While I thought plastic type A streched the least 10 and 12 mm. Two ways that these students can improve their experimental design would be having more variables controlled such as how much weight to put on to the clamps. Also, the students got include the starting size of the plastics so it is hard to conclude any of their data.
3462	2	1	1	?	(a) My conclusion in this experiment would be that plastic type B has the most stretchability out of all the polymers tested. In both trials, it had the most amount stretched, trial 1 it was stretched 22mm and trial 2 was stretched 23mm. (b) The student could have improved the experimental design in two ways by having a control and by including constant variables. The control would serve as a reference point to the rest of the data and constant variables would have made it so no other variables were affecting the results of the experiments.
3463	2	3	3	?	I can conclude that plastic type B is the stretchiest because it stretched to 22 and 23mm.   The student could specify the amount of plastic that was hanging over the edge. The student could also say how much weight he was using.
3464	2	3	3	?	In conclusion plastic type B has the highest stretchability while type A has the lowest. One way that the student could have improved the experiment would be to have a specific weight such as 1 Ab, 2 Ab, 3 Ab. Another way would be to add one more trial so as to prove or show better more valid results.
3465	2	2	2	?	One conclusion that can be drawn is that plastic type B stretched the most (22 mm and 23 mm) out of all the plastics. Also, plastic type A stretched the least, only stretching to 10 mm and 12 mm. This is a conclusion that can be drawn.   To improve the validity of the experiment, the students could name the four plastics used. Also to have accurate data, the kids should have set a measurement at which to cut all the plastics instead of saying "measure its length". Also adding a control would be helpful as well. This is how the students could improve the validity of their experiment.
3466	2	1	1	?	A conclusion that can be drawn from these student data could be that plastic type D appears to be the most reliable, or stretchs the most. Two ways these students could have improved their design is they could have done more trials and also they could have kept adding weights and see where plastic broke first. and which held out the longest  could have been the strongest.
3467	2	1	1	?	My conclusion about the students data would be the farthest amount stretched he recorded one thing I would have done would be to change the plastic to which is more durable and Add T3 so their can be more results.
3468	2	1	2	?	a) Based on the data, plastic type B stretched the most during trial 1 and trial 2, the least stretchable plastic was plastic type A. Type C was not very stretchable, and plastic D was the second most flexible.   To ensure accuracy of the experiment.   The student could have revealed the weight added to each plastic in the table, to make sure that it was constant and also could have measured after a longer amount of time.
3469	2	1	2	?	a) Based on the students data and the 2 trials. The experiment seems to be very valid and accurate.   b) One way to improve this experiment I believe would be a third trial run, only because plastic type A was Ma away from the first trial which doesn't give you a great conclusion. And another way I would change this would be explain better. Its very confusing and not specific, how much were the weights etc.
3470	2	2	2	?	If I look four plastic cups and taped them from the side of the table and place different contents such as weights. Then the plastic cups will stretch. Based on my results my hypothesis was correct because trial 1 and trial 2 shows that the plastic cups had stretched. For example, plastic type A stretched 10mm in trial1 after adding weights to the clamp and letting it hang for five minutes. They could have improved the this experiment by giving the length of the cup before the cup and then they could have just measured it again and see what it was after. For example before 30 after 40. They also could of improved this experiment by doing more trials to show the accuracy of the experiment.
3471	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data you, can conclude that plastic B was the stretchiest of all the plastics. If the students are to conduct the experiment again, they could improve their experimental design by using heavier weights and also doing more trials.
3472	2	2	3	?	In conclusion to this data, I think plastic type B is the most flexible type of plastic. Also, plastic type A is the least flexible.   The students can improve their experiment by explaining how much of each plastic they should measure. For example, step 1 should say: "Take Acm of one plastic type." Also, they could improve it by adding the weight of the clamp and letting it sit for longer than 5 minutes.
3473	2	1	1	?	After looking at the data I can conclude that plastic was D was the stronger the plastic because it stayed the same length.   B. two ways they could have improved the job is by first stating what type of plastic you are using and by saying how much weight you have to the clamp.
3474	2	3	3	?	a)From viewing data from me polymer investigation, it shows that plastic type B truly has the most stretchability, because it stretched the most out of all the polymers at average of 22.5 mm.  (b)The experimental design would have better if adopt a trial 3, then the accuracy would go up. Another thing that you could have done was specified how much weight your adding, and if its the same amount for all plastics.
3475	2	1	1	?	I conclude that plastic type D didn't stretch all all because the (mm) length hasn't changed. One way they could have improved the experiment is by telling us kind of plastic they used. Another way is that they could have told us how heavy the weights were that they were using.
3476	2	0	0	?	In the conclusion, the plastic strech out longest in T2 the T1.   The way they could of make there expriment better is by aging more weght every jeswon with the same titty.
3477	2	2	2	?	According to the students data plastic type B is the strongest. Two ways the student could have improved the experiment design validity of the results were. By stating the length and type of each plastic . The student hover clarified the length of each btn p of plastic. Another thing, the student should have done is stated how much weight to hang off of each strip of plastic and if it was the same each time.
3478	2	2	2	?	A conclusion I draw based on their data is that plastic type D is the most durable and strongest plastic. It didn't change in either trial. An improvement the students could have done made was recording the original lengths of the plastics before it went through the test. Also, they could have recorded the amount of weight they added to the clamp in order to see what caused the plastics to stretched. Validity of the results could have been to long or short of time to allow the plastics to hang.
3479	2	3	3	?	According to the students data, type B polymer plastic stretched the furthest. The students could have improved this experiment by adding more trials and more sure that in step 2 that all the plastic samples were changing freely down the side of the table evenly by measuring the parts taped.
3480	2	0	2	?	The weights and clamp and measure the length of the plastic.
3481	2	0	0	?	The student used different plastic to determine its stretchability. She took a sample of one of the plastic and measured, she added weights on the plastic to see how far it would on.
3482	2	3	3	?	A plastic B is more stretchable than plastic A, C and D. The student didn't mess up anywhere during the expierement otherwise there would be a bigger gape on the strecbility between two trials.   B The student should use the same amount of weights for each plastic and should have done a third trial.
3483	2	3	3	?	A) A conclusion I could come up with in this experiment is that plastic type B has stretched 22-23mm which makes it the most stretched but out of the 4 they tested in both trials. While plastic type A had the least stretchability at 10 and 12mm. B) Two ways the students could have improved this experiment is they should have done at least 3 or more trials to better the information given. They also should have made sure in step 2 that each plastic was hanging off the table at the same length so it would be a fair way to measure at the end.
3484	2	1	1	?	Plastic type B has the most stretchability during both trials. Plastic type A had the least amount of stretchability in both trials. The student could have explained how the plastic stayed on the table if there were weights attached. Also what kind of table the experiment took place on.
3485	2	1	1	?	Based on the student's data both plastics type A and B has increased in T2, type C has decreased in T2 and type D stayed the same.   Two ways that the student could have improved the experimental design is add more control and make more trials.
3486	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, scene within the data toble plastic type b was most durable in being stretched. making plastic b have the most stretchability. This experiment could of been improved by having a control of how far each plastic could be stretched with out weights, secondly they could have told us in the ditecting and in use smaller weight or larger weights, and actual length sizes so the expirerment could be done right.
3487	2	1	1	?	One way the student could have imomised the experiment is to try the trials more than once.
3488	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the exploits data, plastic type A stretched the farthest from trial 1 to trial 2 and plastic type B shrinkid from
3490	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type b stretched the furthest out of the grap.   b) give the specific name of the plastics used tell us what size weights to use.
3491	2	3	2	?	A conclusion is that plastic type A is the strongest plastic because once the weight was taken off the plastic didn't stretch that much.     A way they could have improved there experiment is that they could have said how heavier the weights were also, they could have made each plastic the same length before adding weights.
3492	2	2	2	?	a)Based on the data,plastic D had the greatest stretchability with an over age of 20mm streched.This was much greater than plastic A, which had the lowest average amount stretched which was Mumm. Plastic B and C tell in the middle .  b) One way the students could have improved the experiment design would to specify the amount of weights used and make sure it was the same each time.The students should also specified how to hang the plastics off the table so that the same amount was on the table as was hanging off.
3493	2	1	1	?	based on the students data I can conclude that the second time the trial was done the amount that the plastic types stretched was greater than that of trial one except for type C which it shrink Ma from 14 to 13 in trial 2. Two ways they could have made this experiment better is if they were specific on how much weight was used, and if in the chart they included the amount of time that each plastic type hong.
3494	2	1	1	?	The first thing the students should improve the experiment design is instead of attaching clamps to the bottom of the plastic sample they should use small boots to it. Then the second thing they should  is do more trials to the experiment because they pronely won't be happy with the data they already got so I would say do more trials and they might get better results.
3495	2	0	0	?	A conclusion based on the data is that all the plastic types have ranged around the same number. Two ways the experiment could have been approved is for the different plastic types let the weight hold longer than five minutes. And change the trials.
3496	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic B stretch the furthest and therefore had the most elasticity ( stretchability). Plastic A was the least stretchy. These results were most likely due to the combination of polymers in each plastic controlling their physical attributes.   b. One way the student could have improved the experimental design originally  is by stating how long the plastic should be cut to be. So 25 to make the experiment uniform. He should have increased this in his table so people could see how the lengths changed. Then he should have specified how much weight to add to the clamps for consistency.
3497	2	3	3	?	a) A conclusion to the experiment could be that "plastic type B was able to be stretched the most (22mm, 23mm) when compared to the stretchability  of the after three plastics.   b. One way the students could have improved the experiment would be to add in the conclusion the amount of weight they add up to each tag. They could have improved validity by adding another trial.
3498	2	2	2	?	From the students data you can tell that plastic type A has the best stretchability. Plastic type B and C were the second best stretchability. Also that type D hold no sort of stretchability but could have tried more times to yield better results or they could have told us how much weight did they put on for each clamp for each plastic.
3499	2	3	3	?	My experiment concludes that out of the four plastic polymers, plastic type B was the stretchiest while plastic type A was the least stretchy. My hypothesis on how the plastic would stretch was correct because I know that plastic type B immediately seemed stretched than other plastic types. The students could have improved their experiment by using a constant length for the plastic and using a contrast weight to stretch it with.
3500	2	2	2	?	A: The conclusion is that the plastic type B in the second trial stretched the most to Mumm.  B: The could have added a third trial and control variables.
3501	2	2	2	?	Looking at the student's data, you can see that plastic type B has the best stretchability. The bag stretched 22 and 23 mm, that is more than any other bag in the two trials. The students could have done one more trial to justify their results. Also, they could have used a different amount of weight.
3502	2	1	1	?	After testing four different polymers plastics. Plastic type A,B,C.D for their stretchability based on the data table plastic type A stretched 10mm, 11 and 12 mm. T2 plastic B stretched 22mm,T1 and 23mm.T2 plastic C stretched 14 mm 11 and 13mm, T2 and plastic D stretched 20 mm Brand 20 mm T2. Showig me that plastic B has the most stretchability and plastic A has the least.Two ways the student could have improved the experiment was including a control to have something to compare the stretchability of the plastics to, and state what each plastic was.
3503	2	3	3	?	a) My hypothesis, that plastic type B would stretch the most was correct. B stretched on average 22.5 mm, while the other three ranged from 10-20mm. If I need a plastic with the largest stretchability, I would choose B.   b) The experiment would be more valid if I started with the same amount of each substance before doing the trials and it would also be more valid if I complete one or two more trials.
3504	2	1	1	?	Plastic B is the most stredechable and A is the least stretchable.  They should vary the weights they had on this elome and also allow them to hens for longer.
3505	2	3	3	?	(A) According to the students data. The conclusion I can draw is that plastic B had the most strechability it stretched 22 mm in trial one and Ma in trial two second was plastic d it's strechability was 20mm for both trials and the least stretchabilty was plastic A with 10 in trial one and 12 in trial 2. (B) could have done more trials to compare data to and make trials to compare data to and make sure that each piece of diffract plastics were the same size.
3506	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data the plastic A streched the least, and the plastic type B stretched the most, something that could have the experiment better is count how many weights are placed on the clamp. This experiment is not valid because the number of weights isn't given. Another thing that could have been done is tell whether the plastic broke or not.
3507	2	0	0	?	A. With the student's data you can tell that trials aren't that much different in the amount stretched.   B. Two ways the student could have improved the results was add less weight, another thing is let it hang longer.
3508	2	2	2	?	The students could conclude that plastic "B" has the most stretchability, because it stretched the farthest distance every time.The experiment could have been improved by making all the original pieces of plastic the same length. Also they could have used a control for comparison.
3509	2	3	2	?	It has come to my conclusion that plastic letter B is the strongest. Plastic B showed that it has the strongest by consecutively stretching the most.   B) First I would have don 3 trial because that always renders a more exccurat result than 2. Second I would mak sure all the plastics war the same length.
3510	2	2	2	?	a) Each trial was very close to the same answer as the other one, so it, paves my validity, and shows that the weights does stretch out the plastic.  b) The student needs to say how long the plastic was before the experiments. He should also have the weight of the weights listed somewhere.
3511	2	2	2	?	According to the students data the conclusion that plastic. Type A stretched the most. The student could of improved the experiment by making sure that all the plastics were the same length. Another way he or she could of improved the experiment is by doing is third trial (T3), every experiment that is being investigated should have a third trail (T3) in order to get the correct results.
3512	2	1	3	?	Plastic types B and D stretched significantly father than A and C. This allows us to infer they have weaker bonds making them more susceptible to stretching. One way the data would have been to write down the initial length of the plastic, also record the initial weight. This way we have more information to base our conclusion off of.
3513	2	0	0	?	a) When the experiment was finnish the data showed that the four different polymer plastics for stretchability didn't have different results. The amount the four plastic types stretched in test one and test two were almost the same.   b) Two differnt ways the student could have improved the experimental design and validity would of bein adding time for the weight to work.
3514	2	1	1	?	The students data shows that plastic type B hold the most weight and that plastic type A held the least. I think that the student would have added more trials and recorded the average of the trials. he also should have waited until the plastic bioler to record the data instead of waiting for it to get to a certain length. another thing that could have been done is use less time. The student waited five minute before adding another weight when they could have just added until the plastic ripped.
3515	2	2	2	?	A) The student can conclude that plastic type B stretches the most and plastic type B stretches the most and plastic type A stretches the least.   B) The student could have stated what exactly he was looking for. He could have also added another trial to see a better average because some of them were close.
3516	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, it's safe to say that plastic sample A was the strongest. You can see this because in the chart the plastic was the smallest. One thing the student could've improved was if all the plastic samples were the same size. This way all the pieces of plastic have the same starting point. Another thing the studend could change is taking two samples of each plastic so you weren't testing the same sample twice.
3517	2	3	3	?	a) From the information in the data table, I can conclude that plastic Type B stretched the greatest, considering that 22 and23 mm is the highest number compared to the rest.   b) Two ways the students could have improved the design are measuring the length of plastic before the trials,and doing one more extra trial to check validity.
3518	2	2	1	?	Out of both trials plastic type B got the longest after experiment. It streched out to 22mm in trial A and 23mm in trial B. Plastic type A stretched out the least. In trial A it reached 10mm and in trial B it reached to 12mm.   Two ways the students could have improved the validity of their results would be to add in the original lengths of the plastics in their data table. They could of also gave the names of the plastics instead of using letters.
3519	2	1	1	?	Well in this data I can conclude that the amount stretched from trial one has increased when they did the second trial, but plastic D stood the same which was at 20.   The student could have made this experiment better by telling us what type of plastics they used. Also they could have said how much the weights, weighed.
3520	2	1	1	?	a. Plastic type D stretched the most and A stretched the least.   b. They could have done a 3rd trial they could explain what brand of plastic each type was.
3521	2	1	2	?	a.Based on the data from the experiment the plastics that bell's the most was plastic B in the first trial it expanded 22 min 23 min in the second trial.B. This experiment is belong a control and needs more trials to improve the validity.
3522	2	0	0	?	Plastic type A had the most impact on stretching, type B and C only stretch out one mm longer and type a was the same.  The student could have added more plastic types and let the weights clamps hang for a longer time.
3523	2	2	3	?	We can conclude that plastic B is the plastic that can stretch the most we can also conclude that plastic A can stretch the least. The student should haw used the same length plastic for each. The student should have also made their data table it shows the plastic starting length and ending length.
3524	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data, I can draw a conclusion that at the end of expirment, plastic type A stretched the longest with Ma, and type D stretched the least by remaining the same at 20mm. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design is first tell how much the weights weighed that he added to the clamp. Another way the experimental design could have been improved is by telling what kinds of plastic instead of using type A,B,C and D.
3525	2	2	2	?	A It is concluded that plastic type A had the most st reachability because it increased Ma in length from being streched, and all the others either grew smaller or barely streched.   B Two ways this student could have improved the experimental design would be to have all the plastics braining length the same and also specify how much weight to add to the plastic samples.
3526	2	2	2	?	A) Based on the students data I can conclude that plastic type B had the highest amount of plastic stretched compared to the other.   B) Two ways students could of  improved this experiment is by doing  materials to make results more reliable . Also, they should of had a control variable of just the plastic so you can see the results on how far it has stretched.
3527	2	3	3	?	Based on the data collected by the experiment, plastic type B has the greatest stretchability when attatched to weights. However, there are ways in which this experiment could be improved. The student did not specify how much weight or how many weights were added to the clamp. He or she should write how many weights they used or even add trials where they utilize different amounts. Also, a third trial should have been conducted to formulate an average stretchability length. Only 2 measurements is not clear, a third would allow the student to achieve an average length for each plastic, making the numbers more simple to process.
3528	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B has more stretchability then plastics A,C or D. Plastic B stretched on average of 22.5mm whereas A averaged it, C averaged 13.5 and D averaged 20. The students should have specified the weight added and used that weight each time. The students should also have started with the same size plastic and specified that length.
3529	2	2	2	?	A) A conclusion based on the student's data is that between each trail the number stayed the same or increased or  decreased by one.    B) Two ways the experiment could have improved is for the validity, is to write down the mm it started at and another way is to make sure when adding the weights they are the same found for each trail and plastic type.
3530	2	2	1	?	According to the data plastic type B had the most Stretchability of all them and plastic type A stretched the least each trial. The students could've said what type of plastic it was and also stated the before and after numbers for the plastic just in case there were any errors in the experiment.
3531	2	3	3	?	Based on these results, I can conclude that plastic "B" has the most stretchability. These results are valid because of the two trials, so I can confidently conclude this. To improve the validity even more would be to use the same length plastic for each type because this may affect the results. Also, the should give a specific weight to add on the procedure instead of just saying "add weights".
3532	2	2	2	?	The conclusion of this experiments that plastic B is the stretchiest with 22 and 23mm stretched in the two trials, an average of 22.5mm  plastic A was the least stretchy with 10 and 12 mm stretched in the two trials, an average of Mumm. The student could have improved the experiment by performong on trial 3 (T3) for the plastics to ensure validity. Another way could be to let the weights hang even longer or add more weights to each plastic to ensure validity.
3533	2	2	2	?	A. Based on the data table the polymer plastic with the most stretchability is plastic type B because it was stretched out the  furthest, then the next most stretchy was D, then C, then the least was A.   B. Two ways to improve the experimental design or validity of the results are, be more specific; how much weight is being added to the plastics and for T2 I believe that a different amount of weight should be added to the plastic types.
3534	2	0	0	?	In conclusion plastic A is the strongest and plastic D is the weakest.   The student could improve the validity of the results by 1) saying in T1 and T2 they used 2 different sets of 4 kinds of plastics. And 2) you can also have at least one other person there to varify this.
3535	2	1	1	?	A) From this data you can conclude that. There really wasnt much of a change and that T1 bag is stronger.   B) The student need an control and also need to be more spcific. when it comes to the weights.
3536	2	3	3	?	Plastic sample B stretched the farthest.  The experiment could have been improved by adding exact amount of what to be added on the plastics. Also to measure how much of the plastics edge to be taped to the table so they are standing at the same point.
3537	2	1	1	?	Repeat the procedure, and use more examples.
3538	2	0	0	?	To draw a conclusion I would figure out the ostium to this data table. B Two way I think the students could of improved on this data table would be to take step eight and make sure they're right.
3539	2	2	2	?	1) Based on the students data it is conclusive that plastic sample A is the strongest plastic because in trial one it's length was 10mm and in trial 2 it's length was 12mm. Plastic B is the weakest plastic because it's length after weights were added was 22mm, andon the second trial was 23mm.   B) The students could have improved the experiment by increasing the time from 5mins to Cumins, and increasing the number of trials with each samples.
3540	2	2	2	?	The conclusion I drew from the data is that plastics B and D most likely have less rigid polymer stratous than A and C. The students could have improved the experiment by doing more trials and including the exact weight of the weights to use. I think the experiment is pretty valid because there are no obvious errors, but the students could increase the validity by doing more trials.
3541	2	2	2	?	Based on the students results the polymer plastic that was able to stretch the most was plastic B. This student could have improved the validity of the results by finding out the averages of how far each plastic was able to stretch. He could have also noted in his procedure that all the weights most weigh the same so it could be constant. These changes would have made the experiment better and make the results more valid.
3542	2	1	1	?	Based on the data, plastic type B is the most stretchable polymer.   The student could have improved validity by reducing the time in each trial  or  using less weight.
3543	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data, I can conclude that plastic type B was the most stretchable of the four plastics because in T1 it streched 22 mm and in T2 it streched 23 mm. One ways the student could have improved the validity of their results would be to do more trials. One way they could have improved the experimental design would be by specifying the amount of weights to place on the clamps in step 4.
3544	2	3	3	?	a)The strechiest polymer plastic tested was type B, followed by type C then type A being the least stretchiest  b)The student could have. Improved the experiment by compieting more trials to make conclusion more valid. Also the student could use a constant measurement of how far off the table the plastic should hang and where to tape it the student could also improve it by using a set amount of weights.
3545	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data plastic type B was stretched the most plastic type A was stretched the last.I think two ways that could have made this lab better is that all the plastic types should all have to be the same length before you add the weights to them and second the procedure should tell you to record that data on a chat the the student did.
3546	2	0	0	?	A) They should remain the same.  B) They should take out the weights.  C) They should work together on the project.
3547	2	2	2	?	Two ways the student could haved improved the experiment, one is dodo more trials. Another is to let the clam hang for 10minutes.   The conclusion on for experiment is that plastic type "B" is the weakest because it streched the most and plastic A is the strongest.
3548	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type B has the most strechability because, it streched to 22 and 23mm for both trials. Plastics A, C,and D only reached maximum lengths of 12, 13 or 20mm for both trials.   b) The students could have improved their experimental design and or or validity by adding more trials or by ensuring that the same length of plastic hangs on the side of the table.
3549	2	1	1	?	Plastic type A: stretched from 10to 12 increased 2. Plastic type B: stretched from 22 to 23 increased 1. Plastic C: stretched from 14 to 13 decreased 1. Plastic type D: stayed the same.   The student could have improved the experiemental design by performing diffrent trials.
3550	2	2	1	?	It seems that plastic type B is the best. The reason why it was the best was becuse when it stretched it stretched for the longest. Two chutes I would mark would be more trials and more test plastics.
3551	2	1	2	?	The conclusion is that the plastic B is the largest one in trial 1 and in trial 2. 30 plastic B is  the longest plastics out of all of the plastic style. the two ways to make experiment would be adding more trials and also having the plastic and weights hang for a longer time.
3552	2	2	3	?	A) Plastic type B had the most amount of stretch compared to the others.  B) The student should have specified the length because without a starting length, his data is inconclusive. The student also should have specified to hold up or attach the clamp to something so the ends would be equal. In his procedure, it seems like you put weights on it while it hangs loosely.
3553	2	1	1	?	a.) The conclusion is that plastic type B had the most amount stretched in both trails and plastic type A had the least amount stretched in both trails.   b.) One way the students could have improved their experiment would have to be: Tell what type of plastic they use and another one would be to tell how long they stretched each plastic.
3554	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic type A increased the more from the first trial to the second trial. It went from 10mm to 12mm. Type C was the only type of plastic that decreased the length. Type D stayed the same at 20mm of length.   b) The student could of had a control group which could of been a different type of plastic. Also the student could of had a third trial to see how it would change the amount the plastic was stretched from the first and second trials.
3555	2	2	2	?	A)My conclusion is if you add more weight the length of the polymers would grow after 5 minutes.  (B)They can improve by doing more trials, and by listing different polymers they were using. Also they can list wht type of weights they were using and how heavy those weights are.
3556	2	2	2	?	A) In conclusion plastic type "B" could stretch the most.   The students could improve their experiment by more trials and by stretching the plastic more .
3557	2	1	1	?	Based on the student's data, I conclude that for the second trial, the plastic seem to have stretched slightly more than in the first trial. Also for plastic type "D" the plastic length stayed the same, meaning that it will not stretch any further.   b) Two different ways the students could have improved the experimental design is by adding more trials and more types of plastic to test.
3558	2	0	0	?	My conclusion is that they did a pretty good job setting up the data table. They not only tried it once they tried it twice. One way they could of done a better job by instead of the data table they shouldn't did a bar graph.
3559	2	1	1	?	A) I concluded that the stretchability of the plastics have no real difference because the stretchability of the plastics only very by 1 to 2 millimeters.  B) Two ways the students could have improve the experiment is they could have added a specific amount of weight and they could have let the weights strecth the plastics for a longer period of time.
3560	2	0	0	?	Extend the time of the weight longer, like about 10 minutes more. Use different materials.
3561	2	1	1	?	The conclusion based on the student data is that plastic type D is the least stretchable and type A is the most stretchable.   To improve the experiment the students should have add more trials and also tested different amounts of weights so they could see how each plastic type reached when even more weight was put on.
3562	2	2	2	?	It would appear from the data that plastic type B is the most stretch able of all the tested plastics. It stretched on average 2.5 more than the next stretches plastics. One way to improve is say what weight they will apply to each plastics for example 10g, 50g, 100g. Another way is to use the same mass for all of plastics.
3563	2	1	1	?	A- A conclusion that can be made for this experiment is. In conclusion plastic D would be the strongest type of plastic because according to the data table in both trials plastic D did not stretch.   B- Two ways this student could have improved these experiment is by telling us the four different types of plastics used also by telling us how much weight it took to make the plastic stretch and what it is measured in.
3564	2	1	1	?	Plastic A and D were able to withstand the most weights while B and C were the least. The students could have improved by using a control and doing more trials for more accurate test results.
3565	2	2	2	?	a. The purpose of this lab is to test 4 different types of polymers to see which polymer is the stretchiest. Based on the results founded, it can be concluded that plastic type B was the stretchiest. In both trial one and trial 2, plastic B stretched the most with 22mm in Ti and 23mm in T2 plastic type A was the least stretchable with T1 and 12mm in T2.  b. One way the lab could be improved would to have specified an exact width to use in the test. Another possible improvement would be to test for longer amount of time. This should show how the plastics stretch over a longer period of time.
3566	2	1	1	?	Based on the student's data, I concluded that the amount each plastic stretch, had varied very little between trials.   Two ways the students could have improved their experiments would be, 1. They could have recorded the plastic samples lengths before they stretched them. 2. They could have and all the original samples to the same length, the started them.
3567	2	1	1	?	I would say that plastic type B is the most  stretchable type of plastic because in test 1 and 2 it doubled plastic types A and C.
3568	2	2	3	?	a) Plastic A stretched the least of all pour other plastics. Therefore it is one of the strongest because it stretched less.   b) One way the student could have improved their experiment is when repeating their experiment start with a new piece pf plastic. Other ways they can improve their experiment is by adding the same amount of weights at each type. Every weight they add should be the same.
3569	2	1	1	?	My conclusion is that everytime you put weights on it it would stretch to a greater length. The ways I would improve it is to tell what kind of plastic is most recommended and what is the best length to use.
3570	2	2	2	?	A conclusion would be plastic type A is the lested stretched with 10 Tame and 12 Tame. Also plastic type B had the most stretchability at 22 Tame, 23m T2. And type C, D were C, 14 Tame, 13 Tame, D 20T1mm, 20 Tame. Two ways the students could hae improvd was to hae a control with no weights on it. To improe and compare data. Also use the same amont of weights for each plastic. To keep data acorte.
3571	2	3	3	?	The conclusion for this experiments is the plastic the trials the most stretchable: In trial 1 the amount stretched was 22mm. In trial 2 the amount stretched was 23mm.  ways the students could have improved the experiment design or validity of the results is to include the length before it was stretched and keep the amount of heights constants.
3572	2	2	3	?	a. Based on the students data the conclusion I draw was that plastic B had the greatest stretchability.   b. One way that this student could have improved this experiment is to add more trials to have more data to trials conclusions with Another way the student could have improved the experiment was.
3573	2	1	2	?	a) I conclude that plastic type B has the best stretchability and plastic type  A has the worst, type B had 23 and 22 while type D had 10 and 12 mm stretchers.   b) The students could improve their experiment if they recorded how many clamps they added before the plastic brake. The students also could have recorded the time the plastic brake at.
3574	2	3	3	?	(a) Polymer plastic B s the stretchiest polymer plastic.  (b) The student can verify that the lengths of all the plastics are the same at the braining of the experiment to keep samples constant, and he can verify the weights of the weights and clamps to keep variables constant as well.
3575	2	1	1	?	A). The conclusion would be, that the procedure of this students data had went as planned. All of the results all were around the same number and some were the same.   B) Two ways the student could have improved on this experiment is to have a control group and also they could of had a third trial to make sure that the results were all correct.
3576	2	2	2	?	The west flexible type of plastic was type B. On the first trial type B stretched 22 mm while type A hand the least flexibility by only streching 10mm. Also type D was the seacon strechiest plastic but it did not streck on trial 2. One way that yje students could've improved the experiment seating was by saying how much weight to put on the plastic. Their results codve be in been better by getting new plastic to stretch.
3577	2	0	0	?	a- From looking at the student's data from their experiment, trial 2 had better results than trial 1. In trial 2, they could have done the producers more like the instructions tell them to instead of doing half.   b- I do not see anything that they could have done differently.
3578	2	2	1	?	a) Plastic type A has the highest level of stretchability because from the 1st and the second trial it stretched 2 mm, while the other plastic types only stretched 1 mm or stayed the same.   b) Two ways the student could improved the experiment could have been to add more weights to the bags. Another way to improve the validity of the results is to specify how heavy the weights were and how many did he put.
3579	2	2	2	?	Plastic type A stretched the least, only 10-12mm thus making it the strongest while plastic type B stretched the most, 22-23mm thus making it the weakest. Could have let the weights hang there for more than 5 minutes to increase validity and had more trials to increase validity.
3580	2	1	1	?	a) According to the conclusion, plastic type A length stretch more than the rest of the plastics. Plastic A is the most stretchy.   b) The student could had added more trials and a can and groups.
3581	2	3	3	?	From the student's experiment I can conclude that plastic type B was able to stretch the most while plastic type A stretched the least. However, these students need to improve their experimental design. Two ways that is possible would be to give definite and constant stretching results for each sample as well as defining how much weight should be used and where the clamp should be placed exactly. This would definitely improve the validity of their results.
3582	2	2	1	?	Plastic type B is the strongest plastic to use. It was the strongest for both trial 1 and for trial 2. The student could have done one more trial to make the information a little more valid. Also the students could have let the weights hang longer than 5 minutes.
3583	2	1	1	?	A) Plastic D stretched the same length in both that but plastic type A is the stretchiest. B) They could have done more thats and, the should have use different weights for more results.
3584	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B streched the most, in T1 it strech 22mm and in T2 it streched 23mm. Plastic type B streched the same length in T1 and T2, 20mm. Type C streched Mumm in T1, but in T2 strech only 13mm. Type A stretched the lease, in T1 it streched 10mm and in T2 it streched in 12mm. The students can add more more time for the weights to hang. The students can also add a third trial to see witch if type C will remain to strengh and less.
3585	2	1	1	?	A) Based on the data given, in the second trial, the plastics stretched more than the first. Also, plastic type B and D stretched the most in both trials.   B)Two ways the student could have improved their experimental design would be more specific with the procedure and try more trials to average out the results.
3586	2	2	3	?	(a) In conclusion plastic type B was the strongest because it stretched the longest, Plastic A stretched 10 mm and 12 mm. Plastic B 22 mm and 23 mm and plastic C 14 mm and 15 mm and plastic D 20 mm and 20 mm. this data states that plastic B was the strongest. (B) One way he could have improved the experiment  is by having all the plastic equal in size and also he could have added the same amount of weight.
3587	2	0	0	?	Trial D has better performed better.
3588	2	1	1	?	(A) In contend the data recorded shows that plastic type D stretched the same amount in each trial.   (B) The students could have done a third trial they could have also had the weight and clamp hang for a longer time.
3589	2	0	0	?	My conclasion is that T 2 had a better amount stretched than T 1 had. Also T2 had more plastic types than T1.
3590	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B stretches the farthest. The students could have improved the experiment by doing a third trial and by specifying how much weight to add to the clamp.
3591	2	0	0	?	A. Plastic type D is the p
3592	2	1	2	?	My conclusion for this experiment is that if plastic B is used than it will be able to stretch the longest and hold the most amount of weights. The reason I know this is because in trial 1 and 2 it had the leading length. A way that this experiment could have been improved would be by not putting the weights on at the same time. This would allow for the bags to get use to each weight. Another thing could be to make sure all the plastics are equal in measurement because that can ruin the data.
3593	2	0	1	?	a) Repeating the experiment T2's measurement increased successful than T1, by not changing the variable and repeating the experiment eight time. Shows how the wight of the weights afflicted thoroughly.   b)The students could improve the experiment design by increasing the weight OR the weights, and using different types which usually be the dependent variable.
3594	2	2	2	?	As a conclusion based on the data plastic type B was the more stretchable plastic. In trial 1 plastic type B stretched 22mm in trial 2 plastic type stretched 23 mm. Therefore plastic type B has a high stretchability level. B) Two different ways the student could have improved.  1) The student could have stated how much the weights weighed and how many to make the experiment more vigor.  2) The student could have indicate the trial high because some bags take longer to stretch or or and break.
3595	2	2	2	?	a) My conclusion is that polymer plastic B had the most stretchability.  b) Two ways the experiment could have been improved would be.  1) Allow the bags to stretch until they break, and record the maximum length each stretched to.  2) The students could have specified the weights used.
3596	2	1	3	?	According to the students data I would conclude that plastic B was the most stretchy compared to the other 3 plastics. The students could of added the weights in the same exact order and made sure she measured in the same measurements.
3597	2	2	2	?	a)I conclude that plastic type B stretched the most because in the trial it stretched 22mm and in the second 23mm. Plastic type A stretched the least because it only stretched 10mm in the first and 12mm in the second trial.  b)The students could have improved their experiment in several ways. First off that could have identified a specific amount of weight to add on to the clamp.They could have also included a control.
3598	2	2	3	?	a) One conclusion I observed based on the student's data is that plastic type B is the most stretchable of the 4.  b) Two ways the experimental design could have been improved are if 1) the student described the amount of weight putting the bags and 2) the student could have done the trials again using more time.
3599	2	3	3	?	a) In conclusion, the plastic type that stretched the most was plastic B.   b) Two ways that the student could of improved his or her investigation is by saying how many weights will they student put and how much does it weigh . Also, describe how long the plastic  types were before she started her experiment.
3600	2	0	0	?	A) My conclusion is that the second trial went better than the first because the numbers are much larger than the first.   B) The first way is the students could have been more specific on what they did. And the seeena way is they should have said what types of plastics and tapes they was using.
3601	2	1	1	?	(A) Trial 2 was the one with the most stretchability. Trial 1 was around the trial 2's numbers but trial 2 was a ting but tiger or stayed the same. Plastic C actilly decreased one.   (B) They should have tryedengce plastic more trials to see it most would increase or decrease.
3602	2	3	3	?	a. In conclusion, some of the plastics stretched more than others, however all of them did stretch. Polymer A stretched the least and polymer B stretched the most. From the results it can be assumed that all polymers stretch.   The student needs to specify how much weight is added and what the starting and ending measurement of each plastic were.
3603	2	0	0	?	The conclusion of this lab shows that in the first trial the plastic was stretched Ma. Trial two it was stretched Ma. Supprisingly in the third trial it actually got smaller by Ma. Also the last trial it stayed the same length. Two improvements could have been how the students should have made the weights heavier and should have made a clearer data table.
3604	2	1	2	?	The students can conclude plastic type A is least stretchable, and plastic type B is the most stretchable and will be less likely to break. The students could have improved the experimental design by telling us what they originially measured the plastic in (ft,cm,in. e.t.c) Told us how many weights and how much they weighed and the type of tape that tapped the plastic in the table.
3605	2	0	0	?	The conclusion based on the student's data is that with trial1 and with trial 2 there were some changes happen the amount of plastic stretched more the second trial than the first. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design is in what minute did the stretch begin and what plastic was the strongest.
3606	2	2	2	?	Based on the data, it can be concluded that plastic A is the least stretchable, and plastic B is the most. Plastic A stretched 10mm and 12mm in both trials, which was the smallest length. Plastic B stretched 22mm and 23mm, which was the largest length after five minutes. The students could have improved their experiment, and their results by using plastic samples of the same length, and by allowing the plastic to stretch for a longer period of time.
3607	2	1	1	?	plastic A was obviously the most susceptible to stretching because it stretche 2 inches, while plastic B only stretched 1, plastic D did not stretch at all, and plastic C lost an inch. This experiment would be more valid if the procedure said how much weight to add to the plastic (so that it was known what it takes to stretch it) and how the plastic was being measured . Although the data table says that the procedure does not.
3608	2	0	0	?	The conclusion i have drawn is that plastic type D both trials stretched the same amount also that T2 was better. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and  or or validity of the results is by compacting their trials to different plastics and collecting that data.
3609	2	2	2	?	a. Based on the students data, plastic type B had more stretchability than the others.   b. The student could have done more trials or added on more time, for the plastics to stretch longer.
3610	2	3	3	?	A) Plastic type B was the most stretchy and stretched the longest during the given time.   B) The way the students could of improved was they could of conducted more trials to improve the validity of the results also in their procedure they could of said to make sure each polymer plastic was measured out before the experiment so they all start at the same length.
3611	2	3	3	?	Plastic B, proven by the results is the most stretchable of the four plastics. Due to it stretching 22mm on the first trial, and 23 mm on the second trial, its average amount stretched to 22.5 mm making it Mumm stretchier the the runner up plastic.   One way they could have improved the design of the experiment is by making sure all the plastics used had the same initial length. Also to tell how much the weights of the clamp weighed to be able to reconduct the experiment to do more trials.
3612	2	0	1	?	(A) The plastic that stretched was B T2 and the least was A T1.   (B) The way the student could of improved this expiremen is by when they put tape on top of the edge of the plastic sample to a table well they should of left putting weight on th plastic to see how much it holds.
3613	2	3	2	?	A) Based on the students data I can draw the conclusion that plastic type B had the most stretchability. If you you rater back to the graph in trial 1, plastic B was 22 and in trial 2 it was 23 which was more than any of the other plastics. B) One way in which the students could have improved the experimental design is by adding another trial. They could also have told you how long the type of plastic was to regin with in the first place therefore increasing the validity and accuracey of the experment.
3614	2	1	1	?	Student will wrap up an conclusion after plastic type and the amount it strech is done. The whole experiment was based on how far each plastic streched and which one streched the first and also the one whiched streched the least.   They could have improved it by streching  each plastic three seperate trial and the answer would have been more clear.
3615	2	1	0	?	Two ways that the students could have improved the experiment design or validity of the results is by increasing the amount of times they stretched the plastic and the plastic type could get changed.
3616	2	0	0	?	A) Plastic B seemed to be the most durable because in it stretched 22mm in t2 it stretched 23mm and the least durable seemed to be plastic A because in T1 only stretched 10mm and in T2 it stretched 12mm B) They could have specified the type of plastic and long in seconds was the plastic being stretched.
3617	2	2	2	?	A)From the data ,I am able to conclude that plastic type B is the most durable. Its length stretched to be 22 and 23.This show that it was able to hold the heaviest amount of weights (B) one way the student could improve the experimental design is by using same weights for each plastic .Also the student  should use the same measuring just so they can be reassured that the length of the plastic is accurate for each of the 4 plastics.
3618	2	1	0	?	The conclusion is that the plastic did stretched out but some stayed the same length and other decreased.   The student would have improved is by having a control group by doing it by a certain weight and other put more weight see if there any difference in ti stretchability.
3619	2	0	0	?	Of the four types of plastic A and C stretched about the same amount of weight and D stretched about the same amount. The first way, they could improve the experiment would be to test different amounts of weight. They should also only measure what hangs over the table both times for a more precise result.
3620	2	3	3	?	a) To conclude, plastic type B is the most stretchable out of all four types of plastics. Type B stretched 22 mm on T1, and 23 mm on T2 (average of 22.5 mm) while type A and C ranged between 10 mm and 11 mm, and type D 20 mm. Type A was the most stretch resistant, so this type of plastic would be the best for grocery bags so that food doesn't fall out.   Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design is by including how much the weights attached to the clamp on the plastic weighed, and how long the plastic should be for each type. Should it be the same or different.
3621	2	3	3	?	Based upon the given data, I can conclude that plastic B had the most stretchability. The first thing the student needs to fix is in his experimental design, In step 4, (s)he says to "add weight ..." but they don't specify how much  weight to add. The next thing that needs to be fixed deals with validity. The student needs to record, the starting length of each plastic, as well as keep their length constant.   Say exat amount of weights to add record starting legate of plastics.
3622	2	3	3	?	a.Based on the students data plastic B was able to be stretched the most, it was stretched 22 mm the first time and 23 the second.  (b)First, the student should have stated how much weight to add to the clamp and measured how much the clamp weighed. To get the total weight added would've improved validity. Also the student should have made the plastic sample all the same length so that they started from the same point.
3623	2	1	0	?	I predict according to this experiment that the student could improved their experiment by try one more time, find out the contro, find out the variables, find out the independent variable and dependent variable. Do a hypothesis and conclusion, that's what I think the student have to do to validify the results of the experiment.
3624	2	3	2	?	a) Based on the students data one can conclude that plastic type B had the most stretchability. For both trials preformed, type B stretched the furthest at 22 mm  and  23mm. Therefore, this type of plastic is probably the most durable of the  4 because it was able to withstand such stretching.   b) The students could have improved by specifying what types of plastics to use instead of just A, B, C or D. Also by specifying how far from the edge of the table each piece of plastic needs to be taped as this can effect results if they are not all the same lengths.
3625	2	2	2	?	3. A) Base on the data given plastic B stickched for nest.   B) The student could have written the starting length of the plastic. He also cook have put his reasoning for doing the experiment.
3626	2	2	2	?	My conclusion is that plastic type A can stretch the least, because not only did it not stretch anymore in T2 it actually got Ma shorter. Plastic type A is the best because it can stretch the most. it stretched Ma more in T2.   (b) One way the student could have improved his or her experimental design and or or validity of the results is to include the data on what the plastics measured before he added weights. He could have also included the weights of the weights he added.
3627	2	0	0	?	a)The amount stretched by T2 showed more improvement by having it stretched because the different material. Both were investigated at the same time. One place was more affected.  (b)One way is is by maybe leaving it a little longer. Or use different types of weight.
3628	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data we can conclude that plastic B has the most stretchability compared to plastics AC, or D. In trial 1 plastic type B stretched 22mm and 23mm in trial 2. All of the other plastics stretched less than this amount. For example, plastic A only stretched 10 and 12mm for trials 1& 2. Ways this experiment can be improved can be do to even more trials inorder to varify results even creator. They also can specify the size of the plastic and keep it constant. The length of each plastic shows the same. If the plastics are of different sizes then the results could be affected. Also, the students could have also specified how much like weight is and used the same amount of weights for each one. If one plastic had 21 kg on it and another 31kg, then the one with 31kg may stretch farther not because it has more stretchability but because it was held by more weight. This is how they could improve.
3629	2	0	0	?	A) In conclusion the amount strech T2 streched a little bit more than T1 by 2 mm. I shows that T2 can strech more than T1.   B). One way they can improve by waiting a little longer the five minutes and second way is that they should of used three kinds of different plastics.
3630	2	2	2	?	a. From the results of the experiment you can see that plastic type B has the highest amount of stretchability while plastic type A has the lowest amount of stretchability.  b. The students should use the same amount of weights for each plastic. And add a control to the experiment to improve the experiment.
3631	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data plastic A and B both stretched Ma more on the second trial but the plastic type that had stretched the most in trial 1 and 2 is plastic B.   The student could of improved this experiment by adding the weights but with a certain amount of weight that was used the same on each plastic and trial. Also the student should have stretched each sample as far as it would go.
3632	2	1	2	?	A) The data shows that trial two was more efficient than trial one because they all increase other than one (plastic type). I can also conclude that the plastic type that stretched the most was plastic B.   B) Two ways the students could have improved there experiments are, 1. let it hang for longer than five minutes, and 2. perform more trials.
3633	2	0	0	?	(A) My conclusion on the experiment is that, plastic type D has the longest mm stretched out. (B) (1) The student have put the plastic on a hanging string was a steamy, boiling pot of water. (2) Then, the student could have recorded more valid, and improved data on a chart.
3634	2	2	2	?	By the out come of this experiment, you can tell that plastic B is the stretchiest. Two things that could have been done to improve the experiment are making sure how long the plastics should be in the beginning and if all the plastic types should be the same length before you tape them.
3635	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, I can conclude that plastic types A and B stretched more in the second trial than in the first trial. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design and the validity of the results are that he should have written the beginning measurements of each piece of plastic, and he should have tested each piece three times not just two.
3636	2	1	1	?	The two ways that the students could have improved on this experimental design is one what kind of plastic where they using and name each one. The second would be what would you measure the plastic. What type of measuring stick you would use or a triple beem balance. Also they could have dawn three trials to make there experiment valid.
3637	2	1	2	?	a) Based on the results I can conclude that plastic types B and R had a similar stretchability because they increased by Ma. Type C and D are not as stretchable because type actually decreased by Ma after trial 2 and type D stayed the same.   b) The student should have told us much each weight and how many will go on the plastic types.
3638	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type B can stretch the most, while A has the most tensile strength because it streched the least.   b) The student could have improved their design by having the plastic be the same lenghth for each plastic. For example each could be a foot long. A second change would be to put the same amount on each plastic, for example each could have a lag weight.
3639	2	0	1	?	In conclusion after doing this experiment I came to the conclusion that the plastic type by was the one with the longest length of the plastic types. It had 22mm in the first trial and it had 23mm in the second trial.   The student could've waited more than 5mins to measure the length.
3640	2	1	1	?	My conclusion would be that plastic type (D) would be the most stenchy because it went up to 20mm with out tearing. Two ways students could have make the experiment by one cutting a determined length for all four plastics and recording the time it took  to stretch .
3641	2	2	2	?	A. A conclusion I can draw from this is that plastic type A had stretched 22mm the first trial, and Mumm in the second trial making it the most stretchable plastic type.   B. I think that this student should have done at least 3 trials. I think this student should have not taped the plastic at the top of the table he should have done it over a bar so both sides could be tested.
3642	2	3	3	?	a) The plastic thas has the most stretchability is plastic type B a stretch of 22mm in the first trial and in the 23mm in the second trial. Plastic type A has the worst stretchability. Stretching 10mm in the first trial and 12mm in the second trial.   b) They should have stated and used the same amount of weights for each trial. They also should have used the same amount of each plastic.
3643	2	1	1	?	a. Based on the student's data, the amount of stretchability in each opastic type was different for trial 1 and 2. (with an exception of type D that remained the same).   b. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design are to clarify the weight of the weight they added on step 4, then for step 6 they should have had clarified the procedure that had to be repeated (ex repeat steps 1-5 exactly for other three plastic plastic samples).
3644	2	1	1	?	a)I see that the amount stretched of plastic A and B increased on the second trial, but the amount stretched of plastic A decreased and the amount stretched for plastic D remained the same.   b) The student could have make a third trial to see what the outcome would be. The student could have made the trials for another period of time so instead of five mns and he does ten minutes for each of them.
3645	2	2	1	?	(a) Based on the students trials I have come to conclusion that plastic B was able to stretch more than A, C, D witch make it more resistant then the rest.  (B)The students could of group this experiment on each experiment to see how much it could change, and they could of also made a graph to show the results.
3646	2	1	1	?	A. To conclude, the polymer plastics went through four trials. The data shows that A was averaged to 11, B was averaged to 22.5, C was averaged to 13.5, and D stayed at 20. The plastic type B stretched to most. I predict that if they did a 3-rd trial the numbers would be close.   B. The students could of improved if they let the plastic hang for 10 minutes and maybe the results wouldn't be so close. Also, add more details to the procedure.
3647	2	2	3	?	A) In conclusion, plastic type A stretched Ma more in the second than in the first trial. Plastic type B stretched Ma more in the second trial than in the first. Plastic type C stretched Ma more in the second trial than in the first trial. Plastic type D stretched the same amount in both trials.  B) To improve the validity the group could have stated how much weight to use and had more tests and trials.
3648	2	1	1	?	Students could have made his or her own hypothisis to test. Also should have the procedure more than 2 times.
3649	2	2	1	?	Based on the data, B was the most stretchable polymer, followed by D,C and lastly A. Serious sources of error need fixing. For one, the initial length of plastic was not held constant making all data most. Also, allowing the plastics to stretch until breaking. Would truly test this property. However, as the results are consistent between trials, the results seem valid.
3650	2	3	3	?	(a) Based on the students data plastic type B stretched the most. All of the bags stretched only around 1 to Ma difference in both trials compared to their first.   (b) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results was to show the length before they were stretched and show the amount of weight added onto the clamps.
3651	2	2	2	?	The plastic that stretched the most in both trials was plastic type B. It stretched-22mm and the second trial it stretched 23 mm. That shows it has the most durability for stretching.   The students should have put down the measurement they chose to start the plastic at. They should have also included the time on the data table. They should have done various trilas to the experiment.
3652	2	0	0	?	They could take notes and make a bar graph and put all of it together and come out with the answer.   They could use a weight and find out how much the weight by its self.
3653	2	0	0	?	By the process or doing it, the graph showed me that the amount of stretched of T1 and T2 didn't change, both plastic had the same stretched. And it would change by adding more weights because the plastic wouldn't be resible as the other one.
3654	2	1	1	?	a) According to my conclusion B was the one who got stretch the longest and A was the shorter one. b) One way they could do this to make it better is by using different plastics type or by duck taping the plastic to a cup and start putting weighs until it breaks.
3655	2	2	2	?	For plastic type A, the amount stretched increased by one mm. For plastic type D, the amount stretched for trial one and two were the same. With plastic C, the results decreased by one mm. The students could improve their results by repeating more trials. They also didn't mention the measure the plastic be originally.
3656	2	0	0	?	The conclusion is most student plastic stretched more then others. They could improved the experiment by leaven the clips 30 mins.
3657	2	2	2	?	a) plastic type B stretch the most than D then C then A. The second trial all of the plastic began to stretch even more beside plastic C, plastic C didn't increase it's stretching in trial to, actually in trial 1 it stretched more than in trial 2.
3658	2	1	2	?	a) Plastic type B is the the most elastic plastic and type A is the least elastic plastic, however, all plastic types are elastic.   b) The student could have included a specific weight to use and they could have provided elastic types.
3659	2	3	3	?	A) I would conclude that plastic A is the strangest because it didn't stretch as much as plastics B, C or D.   B) One thing the student's could have done to improve their experiment is include exactly how much weight they put on each clamp so it could eaisy repeated and eaiser to understand. Another thing they can do is do a third trial for more accurate results.
3660	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic B is the most flexible of the 4 plastic types.   b) The validity should be improved if the students: -specified how much weight was added to the clamp. -Also specified how high up the table was.
3661	2	2	2	?	Plastic B happens to stretch the further in trial 1 and 2. The student could have used more plastic. Also the students could have used more trials that would have shown the accuracy.
3662	2	1	1	?	A) In conclusion, the student's data that was recorded showed plastic type B capable of stretching the most, than D, than C, and plastic type A stretched the least.   B) One way the students could have improved the experiment design or validity of the results would be by learning a hypothesis. Another thing that could be an improvement is if they varied the times the plastic hanged for up the amount of weight for each type.
3663	2	3	3	?	a) Based on the student data, plastic B is the most stretchable. Plastic B stretched an average of 22.5mm, while the next most stretched plastic was D, with an average of 20mm.   b) To improve validity or design, the student could have conducted more trials. The students also should have specified exactly how heavy the weights used are, so that the experiment is recreatable.
3664	2	2	2	?	(A) The more weight used the more the plastic stretched.   (B) They should've used something more strong than tape to hang the plastic from the table and specify  if all the plastic pieces are the same length and wid therefore they start experimenting on them. They should also say how much weight they are adding on at a time and how log you wait before adding on more weights.
3665	2	3	3	?	By the result of the student's investigation they have concluded that plastic type B is the stretchiest polymer of all four and plastic type A is the least stretchiest polymer.   Three ways the student could have improved the experimental design is by starting off with each polymer with the same length. The same amount of weights for each polymer and repeating the experiment 3 times instead of 2.
3666	2	1	1	?	A) We can conclude that plastic type B is stronger because on the best trial I only stretched by mm. Then on the second trial it decreased to stretch by 1 more. Picture type A is strong but on the first trial it stretches 10mm, while on the second trial it stretched and mm more. We would rather have the stretch decrease than increase. B) The students could have added more time to the bags being stretched and they could have done more trials.
3667	2	2	2	?	3.a) In conclusion, plastic  sample B stretched the most when testted for strechability. It stretched nearly twice as much as samples A-C but sample D was close in amount.   b) The first way the students could improve their experiment is to specify in how many weights they attached and make sure all the weights weighed the same. they also could have been more specific about the clamp so they can have a control and nothing could effect the validity of the results.
3668	2	3	3	?	There is not enough data to draw a conclusion from the students data, the students never told us what the starting length of the polymer plastic where and they never told us how much the weight weighed.
3669	2	0	0	?	For the name of color the plastic.
3670	2	2	2	?	To conclude the polymer investigation, according to data, plastic A is the Stretchiest. Plastic D is the least stretchy.   Two ways the student could have improved this experiment is by 1. telling us how long the plastic measured before it was stretched, another way is by 2. how much did the weights weigh?
3671	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data it shows that plastic type A had the highest stretch constance to the weights pulling on it. In the two trials it only stretched 10 and 12mm while the next best stretched 13 and 14. One way to improve their experiment is to have performed a third trial. Although their test two were similar to end results the third trial would only have made it more valid definitely proving their results are correct. Another way is to specify how heavy the weights are and what type of plastic is being used. Then the reader would know exactly what you're doing in the experiment, and it'd give a better understanding.
3672	2	2	3	?	A) A conclusion drawn from this experiment would be that plastic type B has the most flexibility. B) One way to improve the experiment would be to make sure each plastic gets weights in the same places. Another step would be to make sure the clamp was on the same place on each plastic so the experiment is more valid.
3673	2	2	3	?	Based on the students data plastic type B in trials 1 and 2 stretched the most and have the most stretchability.   One way the student could improve this is by using the same weight for each bag and trial. Another way is by using the same clamp type so it's the same weight added from it each time.
3674	2	2	2	?	A conclusion that can be reached based on the student's data would be that the best plastic type to use to prevent breakage of a bag would be type D. It was not stretched at all when the weights were added. One way to improve the validity of this experiment would be to conduct more trials, and the average not the results. This would ensure which plastic is the strongest. Another way to improve validity would be to specify the weight used and know it as a control for each plastic type. These two things must be done to ensure validity.
3675	2	2	2	?	Based on the data I can conclude that the plastics stretched more in the second trial compared to the first trial. Also I can conclude that plastic B stretched the most because it held the most weight. One way the students can improve the experimental design is to include exactly what plastic they are using. Another way the could improve their experimental design is to include what they are using as weights forearm plastic.
3676	2	1	1	?	a. The plastic type "B" has the most stretchabilty because in both trials it had a large lengths.   b) The student could improve the validity of the results by making sure he kept the same time limit. Also he could made none he did not stretch the plastic by hand when releasing the weights.
3677	2	0	0	?	The students could of ladle the chart better than the did. The could have one add more info to the procedure and state why they are doing this experiment for.
3678	2	2	1	?	A) That depending on the plastic type depends weather the plastic stretch or not and how much.   B) One way put the first length then the second on the chart another way titled the plastic types.
3679	2	1	1	?	Plastic type A stretches longer than the other plastic types. The student could improve the experiment by putting the name of plastics. And add another trial. 3 trials are always best.
3680	2	2	2	?	A) I conclude that trial one and two have similar numbers so plastic B and D are the strechiest.   B) One way the students could have improved on the validity of the experiment is by using something better than tape to hold the plastic clamp at least tell us the kind and trend of tape. Another way this experiment would be better is if I leneth the weight that tore the plastic.
3681	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B has the greatest elasticity while plastic type A has lowest. The student could improve validity by having more trials and recording starting (mm).
3682	2	1	1	?	Conclusion: The students got their information based on the test results, which seem pretty reasonable.   B) Two ways the student could have improved their experiment was have a control and have more trials.
3683	2	0	0	?	a. Plastics A and B and C are more stretch resistant than plastic B and D. Also plastic B stretched the most with 22mm the first trial and 23mm the second trial.   b. One ways they could of told us the IV, OV and the constants of the lab like why they are doing it.
3684	2	1	1	?	In the end, trial 2 of the experiment had stretched a couple mm longer, a part from plastic D, than trial 1. This experiment can be improved by keeping the weight on for 5 minutes longer to give a better result. Another way it can be improved is doing one more trial to get more results to compare for the lost mass to improve it is adding another plastic type to provide a variety of plastics.
3685	2	3	3	?	Based on the data we can conclude that plastic type B is the stretchiest since it stretches the most in both trials.   Keep the same length of the plastics of a constant and specified length. Repeat trials again (3rd time).
3686	2	2	2	?	(A) The strongest plastic was C.   (B) They should have recorded the length of the plastic pieces and added it to the data table before testing, and they could have added another test and used more weights.
3687	2	1	1	?	Plastic type D was the most stretched out of all of the other plastics. The student needed to repeat the steps for a 3rd time also. The student should not have used the same plastic over they should have gotten a new place do the results would show validity to results.
3688	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's results, the plastic with the most stretchability is plastic B. Both trials it had the highest length. It beat plastic D by 2 and Ma.   Two ways the student could have improved the experiment is by repeating the experiment at least one more time. It helps the validity of the experiment. Another way he or she could have improved is by having a certain length and shape for the various plastics.
3689	2	3	2	?	Plastic type B is the stretchiest type of the 4 plastic types this student tested.  (b)The student could've specified how many weights to add and how much each weight weighed.
3690	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B is the most stretchable plastic out of the other four. The students could have ensured that all the plastics are the same length before they begin the experiment. They could have also added specific amounts of weight rather than simply adding a random amount. This would have made the experiment more conclusive.
3691	2	1	1	?	A) The plastic was stretched, but not a lot, at the most it was stretched two inches.   B) They could have said how heavy the weights were, also state what type or brand of plastic is being used.
3692	2	2	2	?	In conclusion the experiment has even led that the four different polymer plastics neither stretch very  far each trial or didn't stretch very far at all.   Two ways the student could have improved the experiment design and or or validity of the results are: Giving us the starting measurements and doing the trial a third time to see   if the results change or show the same.
3693	2	3	3	?	-The validity of the data is questionable, but one conclusion is that plastic A was the strongest because it stretched the least.   -Two things the students could have done to improve his experimental design or validity of his results are (1) Data certain leng
3694	2	3	3	?	a) Out of all 4 plastics type B was the most stretchable for both trials, D was the second most stretchable, C the third, and A was the least", To improve the experimental design, the student should have specified the length of the plastics and made sure they were all the same continuity and accuracy of the results. Another thing that should have been done is the mass of the weights should have been included and it should have been specified that they were all the same to again ensure accurate results.
3695	2	1	1	?	3. For the conclusion the students could of put what kind of plastic they used. Also they could made the data table a little more details.   The students could have improved their experiment by baming some of the plastics,also they could of put the size of the weights.
3696	2	0	0	?	Plastic type D stay the same . They should had left more minutes to hang.
3697	2	2	2	?	A) From the students data table I came to a conclusion that plastic B is more stretchable.   B) They could have done more trial and try other plastics.
3698	2	2	2	?	A) Plastic type B has the most stretchability and plastic type A has the least stretchability.   B) The student could have told how much weight they put on the plastic. They could of also explained how plastic types become smaller.
3699	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data, Plastic type D had the most stretchability it stretched 20mm 0n T1 and stretched the same in T2. While A stretched Ma and B stretched Ma and C went from Mumm on T1 and dropped to13mm on T2.   The ways the students could've improved the experimental design is by telling us how much weight they used and add more weight.
3700	2	0	0	?	a) Plastic "D" length did not increase or decrease in both trials.   b) One way student   could have improved the experimental design by letting it hang for more time to see how it was affected when it stretched. Since their results in both trials were close, they shouldve tested it rersus another.
3701	2	1	0	?	a) In conclusion (T2) stretched alot more than (T1). They were trying to investigate witch kind of plastic stretched more.   b) Two ways the student could of improved their design, was explain clearly what they were doing, and why in their procedure. Also maybe they should of did a (T3) to ready test it because if it was different in (T1), and (T2) then they definitaly dont have a final answer.
3702	2	2	2	?	In conclusion the type of polymer does affect its ability to stretch because plastic types: A and b, indeed did stretch by at least 1-2 (mm). However plastic types: C and D either got smaller (shrinked) or did neither stretch nor decrease but remained the same.   Two ways this design could have been improved would be to: have an equal amount of weights placed on all clamps and do more than 2 trials.
3703	2	3	3	?	a) Based on the student's data, polymer plastic type B was the most stretchable and polymer plastic type A was the most resistance to stretching, or the strongest. Type B stretched an average of 22.5mm, while type A stretched only an average of Mumm, and types C and D came in the middle, stretching averages of 13.5mm, and 20mm. Type A had the strongest polymer in the plastic and type B had the weakest.   b.) The first improvement could have been to include control, by testing the stretchability of the materials or plastics without polymers, or running trials on the same plastics without adding weights, to have a valid comparison to see if the polymers are actually what are affecting their stretchability. The second improvement could be to make sure each plastic is of the same thickness, as that can affect stretchability. They could also use more precise instrument or run more trials.
3704	2	3	3	?	a.) Plastic type A is stronger and stretches less or  slowest then C,D, and B.   b.) Make each plastic the same starting lenth, and the weights are the same weight.
3705	2	3	3	?	As a conclusion to the data shown on the table, plastic B had the most stretchability. According to the data collected, the information is reliable because, the amount stretched in T!wasn't too different than T2. -The student could've made the experiment more reliable by specifying the exact length of each plastic to start with, and made them all the same. Also the student should've been exact about the weights and made sure it was the same for all of them.
3706	2	2	2	?	Plastic type A stretched the least, followed by types C and D leaving B to be the stretchiest plastic type. Two ways the students could have improved the experiment would be to test at different time periods, and to specify the amount of weight is being added to the clamp.
3707	2	2	3	?	a) Plastic B is the most elastic because it had the highest average amount stretched at 22.5mm. Type A was the least stretchable at an average of Mumm.   b) The student have given a specific amount for the weight to be used. In addition the amount to be off the table should be given because the amount hanging off affects how far it will stretch   and controlled for each trial.
3708	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B is the stretchiest plastic and plastic type A is the least stretchiest plastic. The students could have improved there design by naming the type of brand of type they used and the amount of it to hold the plastic wrap. Another improvement would be measuring the amount of plastic so that it would be the same amount for each plastic type and using the same weights for each trial so that the results would be correct.
3710	2	2	2	?	A. Based on the data present in conclusion we can say that plastic type D was the most stretchable plastic type. We can make this conclusion because plastic type D stretched 20mm, the longest:farther than A (12,10mm) ,B(23,22mm)  and  C(14,13mm).  B. The students could have used a more study material than tape to told up the plastic sample, so it would not affect the stretching of the material. The students also could have specified a specific weight to use for each plastic type, so that they were being pulled the same amount.
3711	2	2	2	?	According to the students data, plastic type B seemed to stretch the most among the other plastic types, as it stretched 23 mm after that 2. Plastic type A stretched only 12mm, therefore it stretched the least. Plastic types C reached 13mm and plastic type D reached 20mm. B) Two ways in which students could have improved their experiment is by stating exactly how many weights one should add to the clamp, and use a control to improve the valiaty of the results.
3712	2	2	2	?	Conclusion: In conclusion, polymer plastic B had the most stretchability with Mumm, and polmer plastic A had the least almost of stretchability with 12mm validity. He could of bad more trials, and include plastic types in his procedure.
3713	2	1	1	?	A) Based on the information it have plastic type B has a high stretchability compared to plastic type A whas stretchability is very low.   B) They should've added a materials so we know what they used to do their experiment. Also they should've wrote conclusion so we knew how their experiment turned out.
3714	2	0	0	?	T1 and T2 are very close with their data. They could've increased the time to hang the plastics to ten minutes instead of five. They could have named the plastics.
3715	2	0	0	?	Due to the data each time the student adds weight the plastic length seem to increase after the amount of time. For example I the type A plastic the first experiment is different their the seemed on because the doings utrecht the plastic more after the first trial. The two ways I believe the student should have improved the experiment is by using different kind of plastic and weights.
3716	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data plastic type B stretched the most and the 2nd trial (T2) proved that. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design are doing a third trial to more fully ensure accuracy and doing something different in the 2nd trial like waiting 10 minutes instead of just 5.
3717	2	1	2	?	A) Plastic type B is easily the most sufficient plastic because it had the highest measurements for both trials.   B) 1.They could of easily measured for more time. This way they could see how much more it could stretch. 2. They could of had one more trial usually an experiment has 3 trials. This way average will be more precise.
3718	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, we can conclude that plastic type D had the most stretchability. The student could have improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results by doing more trials so there can be an average of the amount stretched instead of having 2 measurements that are both different and by stating how much the weight should weigh because different weight size could cause the plastic to stretch more or less.
3719	2	2	2	?	A) The students plastic seemed to get longer with each trial, except for plastic type C and D which decreased and stayed the same.   B) The student could have performed another trial. They also can use different kinds of plastic for the next experiment to improve it. And show us the begging length for trial 1 to see how much it stretched.
3720	2	3	2	?	A)My conclusion is that plastic B stretched more than the other types of plastic, because plastic A stretched up to the average 11 and plastic B had an average of 22.5.  (B)Two ways the student could have improved the experimental are (1)The student could do more trials, and (2)the student could gave the information about the measure of each sample of plastic.
3721	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the data shown, the polymer plastics will streach but not much. Plastic type A stretched out the most out of the four.  b) One way the students could have improve is by doing more trials. Another way it could be improved is by stating how much the weights weigh and how many are being put onto the plastic.
3722	2	2	2	?	(A) The conclusion could be that plastic D was the strongest of the plastics because it did not stretch at all.   (B) Two ways this exparement could have been improved is by telling how much wariest to add to the clamp and the deceptions of plastic.
3723	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic type B had the most stretchability while plastic type A had the least.  b) All the plastics should be the same length. Make a machine add the weights and remove them and the clamp b or c a human may place the weight w or a different amount of force for every plastic.  Put two clamps instead of tape b or c the tape may evert it's own force while the clamps wont.
3724	2	3	3	?	A) In conclusion plastic type B was the most stretchable plolymer plastic.  B) The student could tell you the size of the polymer plastic and make sure all of them are the same size. Also the student can tell you how much weight is being clamped on to the plastic.
3725	2	2	2	?	a) Since there were four different types of plastics, type B seemed to stretch the longest both trails because it is most likely the strongest.  b) Perform even more trials for validity and be are to keep the clamp, the weights, and wherever you hang the plastic constant for each trial you could also perform a control experiment with no weights.
3726	2	2	2	?	A) In trial two the plastics stretched more expect for plastic C.   B) The students could have done another trial. They could be specific with how much the weights weigh. The students could have named the typed of plastic they used instead of using A,B,C and D.
3727	2	2	2	?	I could concluded that plastic type B was stretched the most after the experiment which would instate that it is the most flexible. On the other hand plastic type A streched the least meaning it is the least flexible cut of the 4 plastic types. To improve this exerinent the experiment could have had more trials acerate data. The weight could have been increase and or the trials for better results.
3728	2	3	3	?	A) In conclusion polymer B, is the one that could stretch the most, and polymer A is the one who can't stretch as wide.   B) To make the validity of the experiment more accurate than they should of had exact measurment, for example in step 2, the could of said how much it should be hanging by. Also, the could of added another trial, it is always good to have 3 trials just in case of any mistakes.
3729	2	1	1	?	a) A conclusion based on the students data would be that plastic B is the strongest. Out of all the plastic at 22mm. In the first trial had 23mm in the second trial, because it stretch more than all the other.   B) Two the student could have improved the experimenting and  or  or validity of the result are to add new types of plastics and add more trials to the containers.
3730	2	2	2	?	Out of the four different polymer plastics for stretchability the most stretched was plastic type b. The least amount stretched was plastic a. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and or  or validity of the results would have tried different time lengths. maybe like 10 minutes after 5 minutes. Repeat the experiment all together with all types of plastics.
3731	2	1	1	?	A. According to the students data 2 or 4 of the plastics stretched more in the second trial than in the first trial by the minimum of Ma.  B. Two ways the student could have improved their experimental design is 1. They should have taken more trials, at least two more, and 2. They should used more types of plastics.
3732	2	2	2	?	Based on the data, a conclusion would be that the plastic types pretty much were the same as each trial give or data a mm each trial.   This ways the students could have improved the experiment is explain how much the weight weighed and did that weight stay the same for every types of plastic.
3733	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, based on the data from the chart, each trial for plastics A, B, C, and D were increasing, decreasing or staying the same. The most stretchable would be plastic B . It started off as the stretchiest, before it was pulled and remained that way afterwards.   b. The student could have said what types of plastic was used and not just A, B, C or D. He also could have done more than 2 trials, 3 would have been better.
3734	2	1	1	?	In conclusion, plastic type B was the strongest plastic. In trial 1 it stretched to 22 mm while plastic D only stretched to 20mm and C to Mumm. In trial 2 plastic B stretched to 23mm while D only stretched to 20mm and c to 13mm. One way the student could have improved their experimental design was to stretch the plastic until it was about to brake to get the full stretchability. The student could have also done more trials to get more valid results.
3735	2	1	1	?	1)My conclusion would be that plastic type D stretched the most but not the same amount, the 2nd trial it stretched 1 mm more than the 1st trial. And plastic type A stretched the least, T1: 10 mm and T2:12mm but it stretched 2 mm more in the 2nd trial than the first.   Two ways they could have improved the experimental design and for identify of results is they could have made another trial (T3) at least and could have let the weight hang longer than 3 minutes.
3736	2	1	1	?	A and C did not stretch too far, but B and D stretched much more. The student could have given the beginning lengths in his data, or he could have added more and more weights and seen how far the plastics would stretch.
3737	2	3	3	?	a) The most plastic type B had the most stretchability in the trial , it stretched 22mm visible plastic type A stretched 10mm and in trial 2 it stretched 23mm while type A stretched 12mm.   b) The students should had the lengths of the plastics start out he same that way no plastic could be able to hold more weights since it was longer. Students should also specify how many weights are added for five minutes so that way a plastic doesn't stretch more just because it had more weights.
3738	2	0	0	?	According to the data table plastic type A was the most stretchable. Type B and C decreased when measured again after having placed weights and type D stayed the same. Therefore, type A was the most stretchable considering the longitude it made by Ma.
3739	2	2	2	?	Based on our results of the polymer investigation we found out that plastic type A stretched the most of two mm. Type B stretched the second furthest at Ma, and type C lost 1 mm and finally type D didn't lose or gain any length. Two ways the student could have improved the validity was to make sure he used the same amount of weight at the end of the plastic and that the plastic was taped at the same spot at the top of the table.
3740	2	3	3	?	I can conclude that plastic type B was superior and has more stretch ability than any other plastic type.   B) The student could have added more trials to secure the validity that plastic type B had the most stretchability. The student could have drastically improved the experimental design by mentioning how much the weights weigh.
3741	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data plastics type D stretched the most in both trials. Two ways the students could have improved the experiment design is one way they could of have one more trials and see the results. Another thing they could have done was try to stretch the plastic over a different type of texture.
3742	2	2	2	?	a. As shown by the data, plastic B was the plastic that stretched the most. All the other plastics were betweens - 20 while plastic B needed the with 22mm and 23mm. b. A control always improves the validity of date so one would help the experiment. More trials could also help so we are no outliers or mistakes.
3743	2	0	2	?	(A)It appears that sample A was the strongest. After trial 1 it was 10mm and after trial 2 it was 12mm. Samples B and D were the weakest, sample B after trial 1 was 22mm and sample D was 20mm and after trial 2 sample B was 23mm and sample was 20mm.  (B)One way the student could have improved the experiment is by specifically saying what plastic he was testing . Another way is by saying how much the weights weighed.
3744	2	2	2	?	A) Based on the procedure the results were not valid. How much weight am I supposed to add.   B) The validity could have been improved by telling me how much weight to add or what kind of weights to use.
3745	2	1	1	?	From the student, I can draw the conclusion that plastic types D has the least amount of stretchability ( it did not stretch at all ). The student had a very thorough procedure but they could have improved it. They could have added more weights to the plastics to see how much weight it could have taken to stretch,as well as done more than two trials for each of the different plastics.
3746	2	3	3	?	A) From the data I am draw the conclusion that polymer B had the most stretchability. Polymer plastic B stretch an average of 22.5mm which was greater than polymer A, C and D.   B). To improve this experiment, the students should make sure that the amount of weight put on each plastic sample to make sure that the type of plastic was the only variable involved. Also the students should run more trials to make sure that their results were valid. With more trials, the experiment will get more results and a better chance that they are accurate.
3747	2	2	2	?	The students conclusion would be that plastic B stretched the most. For T1 it stretched 22mm and for T2 it streched 23 mm.   B) The students could have done more trials. They also could of hard more plastics.
3748	2	3	3	?	A.) Plastic type B is the stretchiest of all the plastics tested. Plastic A is the strongest and stretche the least amount.   B.) The student should have andesite that the plastic sheets started out the same length. Also must have had the same amount of weights applied.
3749	2	3	2	?	a. According to the student's data, plastic type B is the most flexible of the 4 plastic types.   b. First, the students could have used a specific length for each plastic strip to begin with, because they will most likely stretch more if they are longer to begin with. Second, they should make sure that they add the same weight for each trial and plastic, because they are measuring chevibility, not how much weight each can hold.
3750	2	0	0	?	Each type of plastic stretched about the same or a couple millimeters off to its counterpart in the second trial. The students could have improved the design by getting and telling specific types of plastic to use and to tell us what unit of measurement to measure the unscratched and then stretched plastic.
3751	2	3	3	?	A conclusion that can be drawn is that plastic type B was the most stretchable of the plastics. The student could improve their experimental design would be to make sure all the different plastics were the same length before the weights were added, and make sure to include that original measurement in the data table. The student should also keep the number of weights on the plastic constant because if are plastic had more weight applied to it then another, it may appear to have stretched more.
3752	2	0	0	?	The students have to make sure the test results are accurate and that the answers are precise.
3753	2	3	3	?	a.) Based on the data, it can be concluded that plastic types B has the least streghth or the most elasticity because it stretched the farthest of all the other plastics. Plastic D is the second and plastic C is the third plastic with least streghth or most elasticity. Since plastic A had the least stretched legate, it is the strongest or least plastic plastic.   b.) To improve the validity of this experiment, it would be wise to mauve that each plastic is not only the same size, but is also taped at the exact same spot to the table, and is clamped at the same spot as well. This will allow for the removal of other ine-wencing factors. It is also important to specify the amount of weight that is used. The same amount of weight should be used for each plastic trial to ensure that weight is not a variable in the experiment.
3754	2	2	2	?	The plastic type B had stretched the most. To improve this lab, they could of did more trials to see if their results were correct and give us what each type of plastic is and write a hypothesis based on the start of the lab to know the task at hand.
3755	2	1	0	?	Based on the data table both trails were basically the same but they could have improve the experiment by using different weights so they could see the difference. Also, the shouldn't have add a clamp to the and of the plastic.
3756	2	1	1	?	Plastic type D has 19 better chance of having stretchability because during both trials the amount stretched out equal, so it has a accurate chance of stretching. The student could have improved this experimental design by adding another trial and reapeating the same procedure.
3757	2	2	2	?	Due to the data I can tell that type D streches the 2nd most but was consistent through both trials. I can also see that type A streched the least amount. Type B though, streches the most. From the data I know that type B plastic is the best because it can strech the most without breaking. This means that the chemical bonds in the polymers are mostly covalent bonds. The student could have improved their experiment by saying how much weight they added, as well as be more specific in the procedure about the plastic types.
3758	2	3	3	?	I can conclude that plastic type A is a stronger plastic that it not very good a streching. I would add how much weight to put on the clamps and put in a 3rd trial.
3759	2	2	2	?	a) The plastic B has the most amount that stretched.   b) The student could of improved their data's by using more tests and not the weights an for more time.
3760	2	0	0	?	a) According to data table the plastics had berry little change from trial to trial for an example plastic type A for trial was 10mm and trial 2 was 12 so it stretched more the second time and for B trail 1 was 22 and trial 2 was 23. for C T1 was 14 and T2 was 13 but a changed happened on plastic C the measurement stand the same for both trials with amount of 20. B) Two ways the students had did different times for each trial. Also the clamp they should have put the plastic some where else cause maybe the clamp had added more weight.
3761	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data t concede that plastic type A was the strongest plastic because it streched the least amount two ways that the students could have improved the experimental design are: adding a trial 3 and recording the original length of the plastic.
3762	2	2	2	?	a. Based on the student's data. I can conclude that the plastic type D was the strongest polymer stretching 20mm in trial one and trial 2. I can also conclude that the plastic type A was the weakest polymer stretching 10mm in the first trial and 12mm in the second trial B. One way the students could have done to improve their experiment is perform more trials. Another way the students could have improved their experiment is to record in the table how many weights used.
3763	2	1	1	?	A.) When the four different polymer plastics were tested for stretchability a second time the results changed drastically for each material as shown in the data table.   B.) Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results was by increasing the time the material have to hang, and repeat the trial a third time.
3764	2	2	2	?	In conclusion polymer plastic "B" is the plastic that stretched the most in this investigation.   The student could have added to the results the name each polymer plastic. Also, made each polymer plastic the sam length to  start with and test each one at the same time.
3765	2	1	1	?	a) I conclude that 12 has stretched more than 11.   b) Two ways the students could have improved the experiment design is by..1) they could have added the amount of weights they used. 2) They could have timed it.
3766	2	1	1	?	A. It seems that seems that most of the bags stretched a little more in the second trial.   B. I think the student could have improved this experiment by doing more trials.
3767	2	2	2	?	A Conclusion I can make from this experiment is that plastic type B stretched the longest and that plastic A stretched the least.   B) Two ways the students can improve there experiment is by more trials and to put the plastic type in the procedure. For example this student said take a sample of one type, instead she cold have said whch one.
3768	2	3	3	?	I can conclude that the plastic A stratched the least from all the plastics used. And plastic B stratched the most from all the plastics used. Plastic A stratched less because it was better than plastic B. The student should have done more than 2 trials. And also should have told us the measurement of of the plastic bag. So we could know how much it was before it stratched.
3769	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's results, polymer B was able to stretch the furthest length being 22mm in trial one and 23mm in trial two.   Two ways that the student could improve the experimental design is by specifying in the procedure the weight of each weight, and by performing an additional trial.
3770	2	2	2	?	My hypothesis of I believe that plastic type B will stretch the longest was correct. Plastic type B stretched 22mm the first trial and 23mm the second trial. To improve this experiment I would have included 2 more trials to make sure my experiment was as valid as possible. I would also make sure that the temperature of the room I was in was same throughout the experiment because a slight change in that could cause a big difference between the flexibility of the plastic at that time.
3771	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data, plastic type B and C stretched the most while plastics A and C stretched the least in both trials.   One thing the students could have done was include the length before the weights were put on it. Another thing they could have done is tell the actual weight amount and keep it constant for all plastic types.
3772	2	1	0	?	Some plastics are stronger than others.   Added more weight.   Rock certeni brands of waiter bottets.
3773	2	1	1	?	Two ways the student could of improved this experiment is if he would of kept adding weights and manure how low it can go until it breaks. Another way he could of improved this experiment is instead of taping it down a edge tape it down a wall so the force can go straight down. My conclusion based in the students data is the plastic type B is the most stretchable.
3774	2	0	0	?	When the student tested each plastic, "A" stretched 2 times more than before. "B" only stretched once more, "C" went down 1 in the second trial, but "D" stayed the same. The way the student could of improved there experiment, would be if they graph each trial for each plastic, so we could see if it increased, decreased, or stayed the same.
3775	2	2	2	?	A.) A conclusion I've drawn according to this table would be that plastic type A is a stronger type of plastic.   B.) 2 ways to improve the experiment would be to add more trials, and to have more time of the hanging weights and plastic.
3776	2	2	2	?	The conclusion I got for the lab is that there can't be one. We don't know the original lengths of plastic. We only have the two lengths after they were stretched.   1 improvement they should make is to add the original length of the plastic . Another improvement would be to change the amount of weight on the plastic.
3777	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B streched the most at Mumm over the two trials, and Plastic A streched the least at 22mm.   The student could have improved the experiment by doing more trials and specify what kind of plastics they are using.
3778	2	2	2	?	A) Plastic type B is the most stretchable plastic. In trial 1 it stretched 22 mm and in trial 2 it stretched 23 mm.   B) 1. The student could have had the clamps attach at the same height in each type of plastic.   2. The student should have used the same amount of tape on each type of plastic.
3779	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type A is shown to be the strongest while plastic type B is not. Plastic type A stretched at an average of Mumm while type B stretched an average of 22.5mm.  b) The students could have improved their experiment by listing what weight to use and tell which type of lope to use.
3780	2	2	2	?	a) I can infer that plastic type B is the strongest as it stretched the most.   b) The student could have improved the experimental design by creating 3 trials and creating an average of the 3. Also the student should of listed the length of the plastics before and after stretching.
3781	2	3	3	?	a. Based on the student's data, plastic B stretches the most and plastic A is the most rigid.   b. The students could have improved their experimental design by using something stronger than tape to hold the plastic They also could have done more trials since their results between the two trials varied significantly.
3782	2	3	3	?	1) The student can conclude that plastic B stretches the most. According to the data plastic B stretched the most both trials. Twenty two mm in the first and twenty three in the second. While the other plastics stretched less.  2) The student should perform a third trial for accuracy and the student should keep a constant number of weights attached to each plastic.
3783	2	3	3	?	Based on the results plastic B stretched the most than D,C,A.   The student could of validated his statement more by giving more amounts like how much plastic and how much weight. They could also of validated it by doing the trial a 3rd or 4th time so it was more accurate.
3784	2	2	2	?	Plastic type A was the least stretchable. It only stretched 10-12mm. Plastic type B was the plastic with the greatest stretchability. It stretched 22-23mm. The two trials confirm this result. The students could improve their data by specifying the amount of weight for each stretch should be the same. Also, this test tests how the plastics recover after being stretched, not how far they stretch. If they wanted to test how far each stretches they should measure it with the weight attached.
3785	2	1	1	?	a) Based on the data plastic type B was the best best plastic to resist the weight stress.   b) The student must have added a control group and performed more trials.
3786	2	3	3	?	A) Based upon the data plastic B was the most flexible while plastic A was the least flexible.   B) The students could improve the experiment in two ways 1. Add a constant amount of weight to each clamp for each experiment. 2. Create a constant starting length for each sample and measure for the increase in length.
3787	2	2	2	?	A conclusion that I can make based off this data is plastic type A had the biggest size difference between the two trials. One way the students could improve this experiment is starting the plastics all at the same length. This could help determine which plastic's better. Another way is by being more specific as to how many weights to put on the clamp. If one plastic has more weights than the another, it will make this experiment not valid.
3788	2	2	2	?	My conclusion would be according to the data shown, plastic B has the highest amount being stretched. In trial one and as well as trial two. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design would be if they would tell us how much weights to clamp on. Also in the table include how much each weights were added on. As well as try half with weights and the other half with none.
3789	2	1	2	?	According to the data given, plastic type B had more stretchability than plastic type A. However, the students should have stated the four types of plastics they used. Also, they should have kept the measure of plastic samples consistant.
3790	2	3	2	?	(a) Based on the results you can tell that plastic type B can hold the most weights and plastic type A can hold the least weight.  (B) Two ways the students could improve the experiment was to do three trials for an accurate results and have every thing the same measurement to also be accurate.
3791	2	1	1	?	a) A conclusion in the student's data is that plastic type D stretches more than the other plastics do.   b) The student could have improved by adding on the procedure what types of plastics to use. Also the student could have added how much were the weights he used.
3792	2	2	2	?	From the data presented that plastic type B can be stretched the farthest. But to improve this experiment I would do more trials to make it more accurate. Also changing the environment could improve the experiment. By controlling the temperature you can find out which plastic stretches farther in a hot environment or what stretches farther in a colder environment.
3793	2	2	3	?	Based on the student's data, plastic type B stretched the most. In T1 it stretched 22mm and in T2 it stretched 23mm. On the other hand plastic type A stretched the least. In T1 it stretched 10mm and in T2 it stretched 12mm. So therefore type B and type D were pretty close to one another.   One way the student could have improved the experimental design is by specifying the amount of weight attached to each clamp. Another way is by also specifying the amount of the edge taped to the table.
3794	2	3	3	?	a, The conclusion is that plastic type D is more stretchable than the most stretchable plastic A.   I'd improve this they should have included how much weights was put into each bug and also measurement of the bag before they do the experiment.
3795	2	2	2	?	a. Plastic type B has the most stretching ability. As well as plastic A having the least.   b. 1. They could have specified which plastics they used, not just A,B,c &d.  2.  They could tell us how much weight they put on the clamps.
3796	2	1	1	?	Plastic B is the most ductile, followed by plastics D, C, and A, respectively. When discussing the validity of the experiment, it is best to have an average of the two trials. Also, this person did not include the initial length (unscratched) of the plastics. They should have all been cut to the same length to start with.
3797	2	1	1	?	Based on the data, I can conclude that plastic A and B stretched more than C and D. The student could have improved the validity of this experiment by conducting more trials. With more trials it is easier to take a more accurate average. Next, the could also say the type of plastic. Instead of saying A, B, C, D their experiment would be better developed. Easier for the reader to follow. This is what can be concluded from the data, along with what could be improved throughout the experiment.
3798	2	2	2	?	Based on the data you can draw of conclusion of plastic type D not stretching from T1 OR T2. The plastic measured 20mm both trials.The student also could have included how much plastic is being used.The students also should have included how much many weights you hold on to the clip.
3799	2	2	2	?	A)In conclusion it is clear that plastic type A stretched the least over the five minutes. The plastic that was the stretchiest was plastic B.  (B)Add a control with no weight added and a third trial.
3800	2	2	2	?	I conclude that polymer B had the highest rate of stretchability of 22mm for t1 and 23mm for t2.   The student could have added a control group and the student should have told us how much weight to add.
3801	2	2	1	?	a. The data wasn't a clear statement and is inconclusive and they need another trial.  b.) They could have tested it one more time and if they do they test would be conclusive and be able to draw a conclusion.
3802	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic B has the greatest ability to stretch because it stretched the most in T1 and T2.   b. One way to improve the experiment would be to specify how long each sample is at the beginning of each trial and have them all the same initial length ( i.e 20mm ).   another way to improve this experiment is to specify an exat weight to be clamped to each plastic sample ( i.e. 100 grams ).
3803	2	0	0	?	A) Both Trial 1 and Trial 2 are basically the same and their constant to each other their wasn't a big change.  B) Maybe for step 4 they could add more time and get heavier weights.
3804	2	3	2	?	For the polymer investigation lab experiment my conclusion from the data is that plastic type B was the most breach resitance and streched the most at 22, 23 mm. Two ways the students could op improved the experiment is in procuder one. It said to measure the length should be a certain lengths for all the plastics. My second thing is how heavy are the weights in the experiment that hung on the bag.
3805	2	3	3	?	According to the student's data, plastic type B had the greatest capability of stretching because it stretched an average of 22.5 mm. Plastic type A only stretched and average of 11 mm. One way the students could change the experiment is by cutting each plastic sample length may be a contributing factor affecting results. Another way to improve the experiment is by taping all the plastics at the same place on the table, so an equal amount of plastic is hanging of the edge.
3807	2	3	3	?	In total we came a conclusion that plastic type B stretched the furthest in both trials I and II and plastic A stretch the least in trials I and II.   Two ways the student could have improved the experiment design and or  or results was by stating how many the weights were and did more trials.
3808	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data, plastic A stretched the least amount. Plastic B stretched the most. Plastic D stretched the same amount of 20 mm during trial 1 and trial 2. To improve the experimental design the student should have started off with all the plastic types being the same length before starting the experiment. Another way to improve the results would be to use all the same weights added to the clamp each time. Different weights can cause different results.
3809	2	1	3	?	To conclude this experiment. I would state that plastic B stretched the most. In trial 1 it stretched to 22 and in trial 2 it reached 23mm. Compared to plastic A enriching 10mm. To improve the students experiment I would have them make sure that when they put the plastic bag dawn they put it at the same space for a more accurate answer. And lastly, they could hold more trials to improve validity of the experiment.
3810	2	0	0	?	(A) The polymer experiment looks it went very well. Each plastics amount that was stretched was all around the same number for both trials. Two types of plastics increased after the first trial one type of stay the same amount, and one type of plastic decreased after the first trial.   (B) I don't think the student needs any thing to improve this experiment.
3811	2	1	1	?	a) As a conclusion based on the data T2 plastic tests were more elastic than Ti.   B) The student could improve this by addressing how many weights were used and allow them to hang for at least two minutes more and to get new plastic tap instead of using the remaining 3.
3812	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B was the most stretchy and stretched the most in trial 1 and trial 2. The student could have added a control in these and also he could have done more trials for each separate type of plastic.
3813	2	1	1	?	a.Based on the data I concluded that plastic B was the best plastic in trial 1 it measured 22 mm and trial it measured 23mm meaning it was the sturdiest plastic.   b. The student could have measured the plastic before doing the experiment, making it a free trial, and the students could have added the weights and see how much weight it could hold before it fell to the floor instead of waiting for 5 minutes.
3814	2	0	0	?	(A) Based on the students data, I can conclude that plastic types A and B are stretchable; while plastic types C and D made no improvement.   (B) A way the experiment and validity could have been improved is by allowing the weights to hang longer. Another way is to try and measure the polymer plastic more than once after being pulled.
3815	2	2	1	?	A. I conclude that plastic B worked the best because it held in most weight like 22,23 and the lowest was 10,12 so hereford plastic B works the best.   B. What they could have done was add more trials or change the type of cup.
3816	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B is the strechiest.   b) The students could have done more trials. The student could have put in the a verages to chart in order to make an easier comparison.
3817	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic type B and D are better to use because they stretch the stretchiest. Plastic B can stretch up to 20mm at most while plastic D can stretch up to 23 mm at most. Plastic C and plastic A can stretch the least because plastic C can stretch up to Mumm at most while plastic A can stretch up to 12 mm at most.   b) Two ways they would have improved the experiment is by adding more trials and telling what each plastic actually was.
3818	2	0	0	?	a) I can conclude that T2 did better than T1 and that plastic type B did better than A,C,D.   b)
3819	2	2	2	?	A conclusion based on the student's data is that plastic type B stretched the farthest over all because in the data it says it stretched 22mm and 23 mm, as where the other plastics did not stretch as far.   Two ways the students could have improved their experiment is by having a control, and by giving an exact measurement for how much plastic you should use because if there is a larger piece, it could look as if is stretched farther than it really did.
3820	2	2	2	?	Plastic B has the greatest stretchability.  The student can improve his experiment if he does more trials, uses different types of weights, increases the hang time, and uses one more plastic.
3821	2	3	3	?	Based on the data the B type plastic is the most stretchable. In the first trial it was stretched 22mm and in the second 23mm. The student could improve the experiment by through, if he tells us which amount of weight he used. Also the student could try the experiment for a longer period of time and then do this experiment than twice.
3822	2	2	2	?	a). The students could conclude that plastic B is the most stretchable out of the four plastics because it ended up the longest in both trials, after it was stretched.   b. One way to improve this experiment would be to specify in step 4, how many pound of weight are being stretched. This would make sure that in each experiment it is the same amount of weight that is pulling the plastic down. Another way would be to maybe collect data over one minute intervals.
3823	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B had the most stretchability because it stretched further than any other plastics for both trials. The student should have done another trial and have a control group.
3824	2	1	2	?	Two ways the students could have improved this experiment could have been by telling me what they were using as weight. And also, how they were measuring the plastic after the trial was over.
3825	2	0	1	?	In conclusion, this experiment is not accurate because it did not list the type of plastics that would be used for this experiment. The time was not even recorded. There has got to be evidence and throughout this experiment. For plastic type D, the amount stretched was the same by 20 min. I want to know what type of materials were used.   The student could have recorded the time and also show the type of materials that were used throughout the experiment.
3826	2	3	2	?	Plastic type B stretched the furthest in both trials-meaning that it had the largest stretchability. One way that the student could have improved the experiment would be to specify, (and include in the procedure or clarify in this data table) if that was the the dermensions of his plastic samples. That way, same, the able would be the results were strictly describing and comparing the stretchability of the samples, and there were an outside source trying the outcome. Another way he could improve the validity of his lab, is regulate how much weight he added to the clamp and a lot include that in his procedure or data table in order to present his experiment more clearly.
3827	2	2	2	?	a: The more weights added to sample b and a, the more they stretched. Plastic C shrunk as weight was added to T1. Plastic D could have be stretched.   b.1. The student could give the starting lengths so there was something to compare the results to.   2. The students could have mention how many weights were added, each how much weight was pulling on the plastic.
3828	2	2	3	?	A conclusion I can make is trial plastic type D is the most stretchable and type A is the least stretchable. The student could have improved the experiment by indicating and using a specific amount of weights that is unchanging between plastic types and trials. Also, the student could have indicated and used a certain length and width of each plastic that is the same for each trial and type of plastic.
3829	2	2	2	?	a.) Plastic type B stretched the greatest amount and therefore held the most weight.   Two ways the students' could have improved their experiment are by including the much each weight weighed and the exact length of each plastic used to validate their results. A constant variable was not included.
3830	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the students data plastic type B was stretched longer than any other plastic type.   b) Two ways the studen could have improved the experimental design was at given what type of plastic they used and to provide the amount of weigh they added to each clamp (grams lbs, o2, etc..)
3831	2	2	1	?	A. It seems that in 11 the most ductile polymes is plastic type B at 22cm. For 12 it is again plastic type B at 33cm. So it seems type B polymes is the ductule polymes.     B. To better enhance the results of the polymer experiment then shouldue inched the length of tht polymes unstreched.
3832	2	0	0	?	For both trials they had similar results. They could have improved their experiment by adding more weights instead of keeping them the same.
3833	2	2	2	?	In my polymer investigation, I discovered that plastic type B had streched the most in both trial with 22mm in trial 1 and 23mm in trail 2. The plastic type to stretch the least was type A with T1 being 10mm and T2 12 mm. One way the could of improved the validity of the results is to make a average of both trials. Also another way is to say how much weight is being used to show consistency. Finally, they need a control with no weight because the clamp effects the data.
3834	2	0	0	?	A conclusion for this experiment could be type T2 had been the strongest for the 1st two trials and then type T1 started lasting longer and in the end they stayed the same. Still showing that type T2 was the best choice. It showed that in the end type B was the strongest. The students could have improved their experiment by naming the types of bags brand they were testing  and they also could have clamped the bag a different way for example taping it to both sides and putting weights.
3835	2	2	2	?	This instigation has showed that the polymer from plastic type B was the most stretchable than the rest. This experiment could've been altered by adding that each weight should have been carefully placed especially towards the end. There should've been a certain amount of weights put on so that the measurement of the plastics were done fairly.
3836	2	3	2	?	The conclusion of the investigation could be that plastic A was the best because when weights were added didn't stretch that much compared to the other plastics. Two ways the student could've improved the experiment is by adding the same weights to each plastic and when starting the experiment use plastics with the same length.
3837	2	3	3	?	plastic type B has the highest stretchability as it stretched 22 and 23mm, the furthest. Plastic type A is the least stretchable it only stretched 10 and 12mm, the least out of all. This experiment would be more validif the student had 3 trials instead of only 2, to rule out any problems. The student should have also specified the amount constant length of plastic.
3838	2	2	1	?	a) Plastic type B has the most stretchability in all plastic samples, and plastic type A has the least. b). He could repeat the lab more and increase variables tas.
3839	2	0	0	?	The conclusion came out to be that the 2nd trial wasn't really that much at a difference between trial 1. Most of them was 2 or 1 difference. D stood the same.
3840	2	2	2	?	My conclusion is plastic type B is the most stretchy. In T1 it stretched to Am and in T2 it stretched to 23. The least stretchy would be plastic type A. In T1 it got to 10 and in T2 it got to 12. I order of the stretchiest would be B, D, C, and A. They could have taken some time of step 4 and did one to two more trails.
3841	2	1	1	?	In conclusion two ways the students could have improved the experiment design is to add a weight to the clamp and let them hang for more time. Also another way the student could have improved the design is to add the same weights to the plastic.
3842	2	3	3	?	(a) Based on the experiments, plastic type A is the strongest of all plastics, plastic B is the weakest. B is the weakest because it stretched the most and this could be because the plastic is thin, while plastic A was more thick: instead of a linear polymer like B, plastic A was probably a thatched polymer with many different bonds.   (b) To improve the experiment, the students should have use the same amount of each plastic to test. The size of the plastic adds another variable to the experiment. They should also specify which weights they use and should make the weight for each plastic constant.
3843	2	1	1	?	I think plastic D is the strongest because it's the highest weight and they are both even in trial 1 and 2.   The first thing they can change is add a few more trials so they can really see if it stays the same or changes. Another way is to add more weight to each piece of plastics.
3844	2	2	2	?	Plastic B can stretch the most. They could've said the weight of the weights are used.
3845	2	0	0	?	B) The student could have possibly added more weight to each trial that they did to get more reasonable and noticeable results. The results shown below aren't as aromatic as you can see. Also, the student could have added more time for each time he repeated the investigation.
3846	2	2	3	?	Based on the data I believe that plastic "B" has the best stretchability and its strong.   The students could have added a trial 3 just so the experiment could be accurate and instead of cutting all the plastics yourself get precut so they all be the same size.
3847	2	0	0	?	The conclusion is plastic type have 10 and 12 amounts stretched. The two ways the students "Take  a sample of one type of plastic, and measure its length, and add weight to the clamp and allow them to hang for five minutes.
3848	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data you can tell that plastic type ,B,was the strongest type of plastic based on the students data. Not only that plastic type ,B, was the strongest, it stretched the farthest too. Two ways the student could have fixed their experimental design is by the following ways. The student should have told, how heavy the weights were. Also the student should have told hoe much weights were needed in their experimental design.
3849	2	0	0	?	This data is not accurate becaus they got a different number all the time and they only got the same number once.
3851	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's results, it can be concluded that plastic type A stretched the most and has the most stretchability. However, their experiment contains many variables so this conclusion may not be necessarily true. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design would be to make all the plastic types the same initial length, and then to record how much they stretched. This would make the experiment more valid. Secondly, they should have more than two trials to improve the validity of the results.
3852	2	3	3	?	a) Plastic B is the stretchiest polymer plastic because of the amount of mm it stretched in the span of five minutes.   b) The students needs to make each sample of plastic the exact same size and to improve the validity the could complete a third trial.
3853	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B stretched the longest of them all with 22mmfor its first trial and 23mmfor the second trial. They could have improved the experimental design by measuring to make sure that one type of plastic isn't longer than another type. They also could have done another trial for more accurate results.
3854	2	1	1	?	A) Plastic B had the greatest lengths in both trials.   B) The students could have used more weight and they coud do the experiment over again to get better results.
3855	2	2	2	?	We know that plastic type b stretched the furthest. They could have said how long the plastic was when they started. They could have put the names of the types of plastics.
3856	2	2	1	?	Plastic type B stretched the most. One way the students could of improved the experimental design and validity is that they should of told how long it was before they tried and stretch it. A second way they could improve it is tell you what type of plastic they used.
3857	2	1	1	?	A- Based on the students data I conclude that plastic type B is the most flexible, type A is the least, and type D remained the same throughout the trials.   B- The studed could have improved the experimental design and validity of results by, adding heavier weights to the experiment, and extend or shorten the 5min time period.
3858	2	0	0	?	I don't think that's a valid answer but do to their conclusion depending on the plastic it could either increase or decrease in size.
3859	2	0	0	?	a) The second try has almost the same amount of stretchability the first try has.   B) When added weights allow them to stay for more than 5 minutes.   Or they could of stretched it out more wider.
3860	2	2	1	?	A)The strongest polymer would be plastic type B. It is plastic type B because it stretches the most out of all the other plastics in both trials.  (B)One way that you would increase the validity would to measure how much a plastic stretched when you put the clamp on it. Another way to further validity the experiment is to do a lot more trials for more results.
3861	2	2	2	?	A. Based on the data plastic type B stretched the most, while plastic type A stretched the least. This tells me that plastic type B is the most stretchable.   b. They could have added some sort of control and added one more trial. Both would help improve the accuracy of the results.
3862	2	2	3	?	a) Plastic type B has the most stretchability with a difference of 2 to 3 mm with type D that has the second most stretchability followed by type C with a difference of 10-8mm with type B, and type A with a difference of 4-Ma with type B. b) He should have specified the total weight of the weighs and clamp he used to stretch the plastics. It also could have measured all dimensions length, width, heights of the plastic types rather than just the length.
3863	2	1	1	?	Plastic type B is the type of plastic you want to put heavy products in because it is more durable than plastic type A which stretches only 12mm, unlike plastic type B which is 23mm.   One way the students could have improved the experiment is by giving the amount of how much the weights weighed. Also, give the height of the table top to the floor.
3864	2	3	3	?	A) Based on the data, plastic B was the most stretchable plastic. This is because, on average, it stretched 22.5mm in length. The next highest amount stretched, by plastic D, was an average of 20mm in length, showing that plastic B stretched the most. B) One way the student's could've improved their design is by adding a third trial. This could help make sure there was no faulty data, such as an outlier. They also could've written the amount of weight that was stretching the plastics. Otherwise, for all the and prove they could've been changing these weights, which would've given them 2 independent variables, therefore, making their experiment invalid.
3865	2	3	3	?	One conclusion you can draw is that plastic sample B has the best stretchability.   The students could have made this better  or or more valid by having a third trial as well. And state how much weight is being added to the plastic.
3866	2	2	2	?	A.Based on the student's data plastic D is the best plastic type to use for stretchability.  (B)Students could have improved the experimental design or validity of results is by saying the type of plastics they used. Ex: kitchen wrap, grocery bag, cooking wrap etc. They should mention or  add the weight of each clamp used for each plastic wrap. And at last have more trials.
3867	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data, I can conclude that plastic B stretched the farthest on both trials and that plastic A stretched the least. The student could have improved the experimental design by naming instead of labeling the plastic type. That would have given more information and also naming the types of plastics would have given us an idea of how the polymer plastics influence its stretchability. Also, for the validity of the results the student could included time and more trials.
3868	2	0	0	?	a. This base on the types of bag.   b. We could use anothe plastic type and will try the amount of stretching.
3869	2	1	1	?	A) Plastic type B stretched the most at 22 mm and 23 mm . Plastic type A stretched the least with 10mm and 12 mm.   B) The students could have improved there experimental design by saying what type of plastic it is. Another way they could've improved is by saying the repeating steps.
3870	2	2	2	?	Based on the the student's data, a conclusion would be that sample B is the stretchiest, also, materials  C and D have good stretchability, as long as you don't stretch it twice. One way they could improve would be that instead of measuring the substances once you take the clamp off, measure it with it on because once you take it off, it will be shortened a little. Another way could be to clarify how much weight to add onto each materials.
3871	2	1	1	?	(a) Based on the data I can conclude that some of the plastics increase by 1 or decrease by 1.   (B) To improve the investigation the student should have added another trial to see how it improve.
3872	2	0	0	?	In conclusion, plastic type B was the strongest out of all the plastic types. It stretched the most. Plastic type A was the weakest.   These students could have improved their experiement by writing "record your data" in the procedure after each trial. Also they could have created a graph to show their results in a clearer way.
3873	2	2	2	?	A conclusion I've made based on the students data is all of the plastics increased the stretch except for plastic type C that decreased. I also saw that plastic type B stretched the most. Two ways the student could have improved this experimental designs was by adding more trials and by using different kind of weights.
3874	2	1	2	?	Based on the student's data plastic B both trials had the most millimeters for the amount the plastic stretched. Plastic B first trial had 22 mm and the second trial had 23 mm. Also plastic D was the second plastic to have the most millimeters for plastic stretched. At trial one it was at 20mm also for trial two . One way the students could have improved their experiments is by letting us know if were suppose put weights in one at a time or how many. Also, for the second trial the time to allow the plastic to hang could of decrease or increase.
3875	2	2	2	?	According to the results, polymer "A" is the strongest. It could hold the most weight, without stretching. The more a polymer streched, the closer it was to breaking, so that is why "A" was the strongest. The student could have improved the experimental design and validity of the results is to insure that they are using the name type of polymer for each one and that they are adding the same amount of weight to each polymer. That will improve the results.
3876	2	3	2	?	Plastic stretched the most it had stretched 22 mm and 23mm. Plastic A stretched the least it stretched 10mm and 12mm. The students would have improved they experiment by writing more details like writing what was the begging length and write how much the weights weighed. They also could have put an experimental control like using a piece of metal instead of plastic.
3877	2	0	0	?	b) 1. Perform the second trial different than the first.       2. Repeat with fresh plastic.       3. Add more than one types of plastic.
3878	2	3	3	?	It can be concluded that plastic type B is the stretchiest of the 4 plastics, and that plastic type A is the least stretchiest. Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design was by doing more trials to data in more results, and by specifying the exact mass of the weights hanging from the plastic.
3879	2	3	3	?	Plastic type A stretched the least. They could have made this environment better by telling all this you what the plastics were. They could have said how much weren't they used. They finally could have said what the starting length should be.
3880	2	3	2	?	From this experiment, I can conclude that plastic type B stretches the most and plastic type A stretches the least.   Make all the other plastics the same size of the first one. They also could of made another trial with a diffrent set sample of each plastic.
3881	2	2	2	?	In conclusion plastic type B was streched the most in trial one and in trial two. To improve this experiment about polishers plastics for stretchability would be to use a different way to show the data. For example a graph chart. Another way to improve this experiment would be to record the length of the plastic without having it stretched.
3882	2	3	3	?	a.) The student's data shows that the type B plastic is the most stretchy while type A plastic is the least stretchy. Type C is almost the same firmness as A, and D has almost the same stretch as B.   b) The students could have improved their experiment by stating the weight of the weights they used, to make sure they used the same weight for each plastic type. They could have repeated the experiment more, to validate their results.
3883	2	1	1	?	A) In conclusion, each A,B,C and D had different results. A and C stretched more. Both trial 1 and 2 had different answers accept plastic type D it reached the same.   B) To improve this experiment students could of made more trials for more accurate answers. Also, repeat the steps.
3884	2	0	0	?	They added up around each other, meaning the stretched all almost the same all plastic it was the same both trials.   They could put range info on the data table and they could of describe the procedure better.
3885	2	1	1	?	From the data I concluded that type D plastic type holds its plastic under weight staying at 20mm, and type A plastic type was the worse dropping Ma. They should've test the bags wit a variety of weight. Also I would've done one more trial to see if the numbers stayed constant.
3886	2	3	3	?	Based on the student's data, plastic type B stretched the most compared to plastic type A, C, and D. Therefore, B has the most stretchability. Two ways to improve the experimental design are to make sure each plastic starts at the same length and that the same amount of weights are used for each plastic.
3887	2	3	3	?	A conclusion I have drawn is that plastic type B is the best plastic in this experiment. I know this because the data shows that it had stretched the most compared to the other three plastics in five minutes. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and the validity of the result would be in perform the experiment again and make sure the same weights are used. By performing the experiment again the data would be shown four times instead of two and for once accurate. By using the same weights, we would know that the plastics are stretched fully.
3888	2	3	3	?	A.Plastic B stretched the most, D the second most, C the second least and A the least.  B. for one student cased have included more trials only two trials is not that many and could have found and take results. More trials would have increased the validity. For another, the inident have specified the weight of the "weight"in the procedure leaving that unspecified leaver that variable uncontrolled, therefore therefore specifying the weight of the weight would have been highly been held to both the experimental to design and the validity.
3889	2	2	2	?	Based on the data plastics type A stretched the least. Followed by B,D,C. Plastic A stretched the most with two mm. One way they could improve it is to test it more times. They could also have mentioned the weight of the weights he used to stretch the plastic.
3890	2	1	2	?	In conclusion plastic type B stretched the most while A and C were approximately the same. D stayed the same for both trials (20mm).  The students could have preformed a 3rd trial with the plastic type. Also they could have let the plastics hang longer than 5 minutes.
3891	2	1	1	?	B, tell wat the a weighty of weights were.
3892	2	2	2	?	That plastic A was more durable than plastic B.  For one he or  she could been more specific with the plastic type and the amount of weight needed to be used.
3893	2	2	2	?	The conclusion that I have draw from this data is that two plastic did stretch while one stay the same and on other seemed to shrink. Two ways that this student could have improved the experiment is by having what type of plastics that is going to be tested all the same length before the hanging them of the table and the amount of weight including there mass to improve the validity of this experiment and it results.
3894	2	2	2	?	a. The conclusion is that plastic type d is the material that has stretched the most plastic types A stretched the least. One way that the student could have improved would be by adding a timer into the procedure. Also to have the same weights of each plastic.
3895	2	3	3	?	a) From this data, one can conclude that plastic type B stretched the most in both trials. The data supports that this polymer plastic has the most specified what length the four plastics should all start at. In order to increase the validity of the experiment. They could also have specified what amount of weight so that each plastic would be pulled by on equal amount.
3896	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B has the greatest stretchability out of the other four. The student could have done more trials. They could of also tell us a specific weight.
3897	2	2	3	?	Based on the students data, the plastic type A of trial 1 was stretched less than the plastic type B of trial 1, from A 10mm and B 22mm. Also the trials have different results of type A, from trial 1 plastic type A stretched. 10mm and trial 2 plastic type A stretched 12mm. The student could have improved the experiment design by adding more trial and measure the amount of weight.
3898	2	2	2	?	The student's data revealed that plastic A could be most pestilence to stretching. One way the students could have improve this experiment is add more trials. Another way is add control to the experiment.
3899	2	0	0	?	A:) If you hang weights on plastic type B then it will stretch at least 2-3 inchs.   B:) They could of told of what type of plastics they used and which one was the control.
3900	2	2	2	?	By the data given in the table plastic type A was the most stretchable while plastic D was the strongest and didn't stretch at all. The student could've improved the experiment by stating how much was the weight applied on the plastic, also they could've used a better way to stick the plastic on the table.
3901	2	1	0	?	In this experiment plastics A and C where the ones that streched least B and D streched the most Plastic A in T1 streched 10 mm and in T2 it streched 12 mm. Plastic B streched 22 on T1 and 23 in T2 C streched 14 in T1 and 13 T2. D streched 20 in T1 and 20 in T2. So the are that streched most was Plastic B. I think the students could of improved the experiment by changing the way the streched to how fast you can rip and puncture also put less plastics to try.
3902	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the student's data, plastic type B stretched the most, while type A was the least stretchable.   b) 2 ways the student could have improved are, one, tell what the length of each plastic was to begin with, and make sure they are all the same length, and also different lengths of time could have been tested, like 10 minutes instead of 5 minutes.
3903	2	3	3	?	A) From the student's data, we can conclude that plastic type B has the most stretchability, stretching an average 22.5mm per trial, compared to type D's 20mm, type C's 13.5mm and type A's Mumm.   B) One way the student could have improved is by increasing the number of trials carried out which will increase data accuracy and lessen the effect of outlines. A second way he could've improved is by stating the weight of the weights he used. Not specifying this could lead to variations of data, and almost impossibility to replicate the experiment.
3904	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B was the stretchiest, and plastic type A was least stretchiest.   b) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design and validity of the results are; one, do a third trial for each plastic: and two, test a control which will not stretch.
3905	2	0	0	?	a) based on the data T'd like to include that plastic D had streched the longest of all. I can also see that all the plastics streched except for plastic C... it was the only plastic that got shorter rather than strech.   b) I think that the only improvement that this experiment needed was to possibly increase the tim 5more minutes before sarting the next trial. Validity on the experiment with no changes is correct because the use extra trials.
3906	2	2	2	?	A) The conclusion isthmi, plastic type B has more stretchability than the others.   B) Two way the student could have improved the experiment was that they should have repeat the experiment multiple times to make sure that it is acerate and they didn't put time on how many minutes the plastic should be streched.
3907	2	1	1	?	Based on student data, I noticed that the trial two (T2) plastics stretched longer then most plastics in trial one (T1). I believe the students could have made the time period that they were stretched for longer. I believe some plastics could have stretched more. Also, I think that in their procedure, they should have discussed the amount of weights they put on the clamp for future reference.
3908	2	2	2	?	A) That for the first trial plastic type B stretched more for the second trial plastic type B stretched 1 more mm and it ended up the most plastic that has stretched.  b) The two ways the student could have improved the experiment is by having more trials and by using the types of plastics that they were using.
3909	2	0	0	?	A conclusion I can make is that all the plastic types and trials were all about the same thing.  Hang, the clamps for more than 5 minutes, attach clamp to top edge.
3910	2	3	3	?	Based on the data provided by the studence, I have concluded that plastic type B streched the most in both trial 1 and trial 2.   One way the studentce could have improved the experiment was by having a continuat for example they could have done a third trial  to see if there was anymore change. The second way the studentce could have improved the experiment was by giving the length of each plastic to see if they were the same.
3911	2	2	2	?	A conclusion I draw from the data is that plastic type B is the most stretchable plastic of them all. The data supports this answer cause on average it stretched 2.5mm farther than the others and 11.3mm farther then plastic "A" two ways students could have improved results of to include more trials cause its hard to get a good average of two trials. Also I would try adding more trials with different weights, because maybe are plastic is the stretchable when at lower weight.
3912	2	0	0	?	The two ways the student could have improved the experimental design is Repeat the procedure exactly for the remaining three plastic samples.
3913	2	2	2	?	A) From the experiment the students performed we can conclude that plastic type A stretched the most as compared to plastics type B,C,D because from "T2" it started at 10 and to T2 it went to 12. Whereas for the others it stretched only Ma and in type "A it stretched Ma".   B0 The students could improve this experiment by adding more trials so they could get better and more precise results. They could also be more specific about the weights and tell us what to start with, small weights and then gradually get to heavier ones or use all the same.
3914	2	0	0	?	I dont think his stretchability investigation work. I feel that the student didnt has to exactly respect everything 3 times and they didnt have add weights to clamp and allow them hang.
3915	2	2	3	?	I can conclude that on average plastic B was the most stretchy plastic. Validity could have been improved if the student states how heavy the weights are in step 4. Also the student could have stated an exact point on the table so that all plastics were in the same conditions to make the experiment more valid.
3916	2	2	2	?	a) In conclusion plastic B stretched the longest while plastic A stretched the least.   B) The student could of told us what type of plastic to use in the procedure. The student could of also tried more trials to see if the stretched plastic changed sizes.
3917	2	2	2	?	Based on the results, plastic type A stretched the least and plastic type B stretched the most, therefore the order for the stretchiest plastic or polymers is B, D, C, then A. The student could have used the same weight on each of the polymer. The student could have spesified how much time to allow the weight to pull on the plastics.
3918	2	0	0	?	Based on the data. I can see that most of the plastic wraps either stayed the same or increased on the length stretched out. I can say the weights did have an impact on how long it stretched out to be overall, it was a good experiment w or  information, but there could've been improvements. Next time I would recommend trying different weights to see if the amount of weight will determined the length. Also, we can add more time to how long the weights stays on the plastic.
3919	2	2	2	?	I conclude from this lab that plastic type "B" stretched the most out of all of the polymers. This means it has more elasticity than the others. I also conclude that plastic type "A" stretched the least out of all of the polymers. This means it has less elasticity than the other types of polymers.   One way the student could improve the lab is to add more trials. That would make the hypothesis more true. Another way is by deleting human mistake, by meaning correctly and things like that.
3920	2	2	2	?	A) After testing and collecting data I compared each result and I it either stretched by 2 to 1 mm each test sometimes it don't move.  A. By doing more trials and by having the same amount of weight in each one.
3921	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the students data, I can conclude that plastic B has the most stretchability. The data shows that in both trials (T1 and T2), plastic B stretched 22 and 23.   b) The students could have done another trial to make their data more valid they also could have let the weights hang more than five minutes.
3922	2	3	3	?	The results from the students polymer lab show that plastic type B stretched furthest in both that's then any other material. The students could have improved the experiment by telling how much weight to add to each same and by telling how to specifically add them, I.F. shortly or by just dropping the weights on the clamp. As always more trials will increase the validity of any results in a science lab.
3923	2	2	2	?	A good conclusion I can make from the data is type A and C were the most alike and types B and D were the most alike. For example for T1 type A had 10 and type C had 14 and for T2 type B had 22 and type D had 20. The student could have improved the experimental design by telling the reader how much plastic should be hanging down the table and also he should have been told how heavy the weights were.
3924	2	1	1	?	Based on the student's data the conclusion I have drawn up is that plastic B was the most stretchy in both trial 1 and trial 2. Plastic B streched the most out of all the plastics. Two ways this student could have improved the expirimental design was to have a constant, and to add that there are four different types of plastics not just one.
3925	2	2	2	?	a. The conclusion would be that plastic B had the most stretchability while plastic a had the least.   b. Two ways they could improve their experiment would be to add more trials. Truly good experiment has at least 3 trials. Another would be to make the procedure more understandable. And they should keep the weights on for longer, this will give more extensive and accurate data.
3926	2	0	0	?	Based on the data that has been recorded it lists that the second trial that they did with the bags was the trial where the bags were able to hold on to the weights and stretch out the most. A way that the students could of have improved their experiment would've been to add more weights and see at how much they would of ripped instead of waiting 5 minutes.
3927	2	2	2	?	a) I came to the conclusion that plastic type B had the most stretchability out of all plastics. Plastic B was stretched to an average of 33.   b) The student could have improved his experimental design by conducting a third trial and telling the readers what plastics were involve]d in the experiment.
3928	2	2	2	?	The students found that the weakest polymer is B and the strongest is A on the first trial,B stretched 22 mm and on the second trial, it stretched 23mm , However, A was the strongest because on the first that , it stretched 10 mm  and on the second  trial. it stretched 12mm without breaking. The students could have improved their  exprement by being more specific about the different polmers used, they could apply the weights onto the plastic instead of the clamps to see how much it dents the plastic, and they should do more trials.
3929	2	2	3	?	All of the plastics stretched, plastic A stretched the least, plastic B stretched the most.  2 ways the student could of improved the experimental design is by doing a 3rd trial and also saying how much weight was added.
3930	2	2	1	?	The second trial 2 of the plastic stretched a little more. One actually decreased a mm. The student should've done it a better way instead of taping it to side of the table. Also they could've have much weight they were adding to the clamp.
3931	2	1	1	?	Based on the data documented in the table I can conclude that over that plastic type D has the most elasticity because on both trials it stretched to 20mm.Two ways that the student could have improved the design or validity could have been to: specify the amount of the weights being used and specify on what types of plastic to use.This would make the validity higher.
3932	2	2	1	?	Based on the data table each trail for each type of plastic was fairly similar. Also from the table it is clear to see that plastic is was the most flexible as it stretched 22mm in the first trial and 23mm in the second trial. Plastic A was  the least flexible.The first trial stretched 10mm in length and in the second trial 12mm.Therefore out of all the plastics, plastic B had the greatest stretchability. However, one way the results could have been improved is by measuring the length (mm) of the plastic when they break or even after a longer period of time.This will show the true stretchability of each plastic. Another improvement could be naming types of plastic that were being future trial can be done and the best plastic could be put to good use.
3933	2	0	0	?	a) Plastic A was 10mm long and then it reached out to 12mm plastic B was 22mm and then went to 23mm, plastic C was Mumm and then went to 13mm and plastic D was 20mm and than stayed the same. B) One way this student could have improved was to give us the types of plastic besides sayin take one sample of a plastic another way was to give examples and give more details. I say the validity is not right because if I want my store this experiment excatly from word to word then I would have gotten something different.
3934	2	1	0	?	The conclusion based on the student's data is that plastic type B did the best out of all of the other plastic types in both trial 1 and 2. Also, two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and validity of the experiment again and to use more plastic types.
3935	2	2	2	?	In conclusion, our hypothesis was widing because plastic type B stretched the most instead of plastic type C.   Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design of the results are they could have included how much weight they put on the clamps and also they could have left the weights on far moire than 5 minutes.
3936	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data, the plastic type B was the plastic with the most stretchability. The group could have improved their design by specifying how much weight weighed and kept it constant by having each weight the same. Also, they should have included before and after length in their design table.
3937	2	2	2	?	(a) Plastic B has most cross-linking because it is the strongest and stretched furthest.   (b) The student should have increments in which the weights are added, and how much of the plastic should be hanging off the side. Each plastic should be the same length.
3938	2	1	1	?	A) Based on the data shown in the table. One strongest type of was plastic B. But plastic D had a contact amount of stretch.   B) One way the student could have improved the experimental design was by including how much weight to add. Also to compare the results with any other student who performed his same experiment.
3939	2	0	0	?	b. The students could have improved there experiment by making diffrent data graphs. They could have also improved there expriment by solving the results by adding or subtracting.
3940	2	2	2	?	a) With the given data, plastic type B has the most stretchability due to its stretches of 22mm and 23mm. None of the other plastic types stretched as much, Plastic D one the closest at 20mm. b) The student could have improved the validity of the experiment by eliminating a large variable created, which has the length of each sample at a constant length. Also, he could have measured the lengths are smaller amounts such as every minute, not every 5 minutes.
3941	2	3	3	?	(a) Based on the students data, plastic type B is the 'stretchiest' plastic.   (b) Make all original lengths equal I add the same weights (undefined in the procedure). Find a way besides tape to hold the plastic.
3942	2	0	0	?	A) My conclusion is that the experiment was very un organized and not well thought - out.   B)These student could have improved their expiremental design by one, telling us the materials they used like what kind of plastic objects they used like whether or not they were stretchable. Just to give us more of a second thought about how theory data came out. they could have organized their data alot better.
3943	2	2	2	?	I conclude that after seeing the data that plastic type B is the most stretchable out of all the plastics. I say this because in trial 1, it stretched 22mm and trial 2 it stretched 23mm. The plastic that stretched the closist to that was type D, which stretched to 20mm both times. Two ways that they could have improved in labs validity is one, adding a third trial to each plastics. And two, taking the same of the trials and finding in weight stretch for each type.
3944	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B stretched the farthest in both trials while plastic type A stretched the least meaning type B was more stretchability than type A.   b. One way the student could've improved this experiment would be to add a control group so you could see the initial lengths of the plastics. Another way would be to to add more trials to average out the stretchability.
3945	2	3	2	?	A. Plastic type A is stronger than the rest.   B. There a set length and width for each piece of plastic instead of it being whatever it happens to be. A different size may mean a difference in durability and strength.
3946	2	0	0	?	A) Based on the data table plastic type A had the most amount stretched so it is the stretches.   B) One thing they could have done was add weight and see which one would rip faster another thing they could of done was add more time.
3947	2	3	3	?	a. I conclude that plastic B is the strongest with an average stretch length of 22.5 mm. Plastic A is the least stretchiest with an average of 11 mm. Plastic D is the second stretchiest with an average of 20 mm, and plastic C is the third with 13.5 mm as the average.   b. 1) They could have had a constant beginning plastic length.   2) They could have had a standard weight of the weight and tried stretching with heavier or lighter weight for a 3rd trial to see how the weight affects the polymer.
3948	2	3	3	?	Plastic B stretched the most out of all of the plastics. To improve this lab the students should give a specific weight to add so it is the same for all test and  should make a specific length for the plastic.
3949	2	0	0	?	In conclusion T2 was mostly longer than T1 because T2 had more higher measure than T1. One way this student could of improve is he could of put heaver weights. Another was he could of done it was he kept reducing the tape size.
3950	2	3	3	?	Based on the students data plastic B stretched the most with 22 mm for trial 2 and 23 mm for trial 2. These students could have improved in a lot of things. First off they could have been more specific in their experimental design. They could have been more specific and told how the weight of the weight was. They could have also added more trials to get a better result.
3951	2	3	3	?	Conclusion 1 the stretchiest plastic was type B. Improvements they could of had more than one two trials and they could have added the original lengths of the plastic in their results. To know that all the plastics were the same length.
3952	2	1	1	?	The conclusion that B is the strechiest and A is the least. Two way's the student could have made his experiment better was test the dip is the plastics and the width.
3953	2	2	2	?	Based on the data, we descovered that plastic type B stretched the most after 5minutes of the weights on it with a total of 23mm stretched.   Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design was to add x amount more weight to the plastic to see how much it stretched the other way would be to have one or two more trials to eliminate any chance of errors.
3954	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B was the strechiest plastic streching 22mm in T1 and 23mm in T2. Plastic type A was the least stenchy and only streched 10mm for T2 and 12mm for T2.   (b) One way to improve the experiment would have been to add a trial 3 with a diffent set of weights. Second the experiments validity is off because there were no stated constants. The plastic starting length, weights added, and conditions like weather should be the same for all trials.
3955	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B is the most stretchable with an average  of 22.5mm of stretchability. The least most stretchable had an average stretchability of 2.5mm less than type B of 20mm.   b) the student could have specified a single starting length for each trial of each type of plastic.   The student could have specified the weight to add.
3956	2	1	1	?	Well fro 1 they could have named the plastics. The second way is to name why they are doing it,and finally they could have measure it was before they started testing.
3957	2	0	0	?	(T2) Had stretched more than trial (T1) for plastic type A, B. Then (is was lower than T1 then plastic type D was exactly the sam.
3958	2	1	2	?	(A) I can conclude from the students data table that plastic type "B" had the most stretchibility. The weakest type of polymer was type "A".   (B) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design was leave the weights on for longer than five minutes, or done more trials.
3959	2	1	1	?	A) Plastic type A stretched the most, (Ma) and type D did not.stretch at all.   B) All plastics started at the same length. Make sure the temperature is the same.
3960	2	1	1	?	Polymer type C was the strongest plastic with only a difference or Ma in two trials. This student could've listed the starting length of the plastic.
3961	2	3	3	?	According to the student's data, plastic B stretched the most with an average of 22.5mm. Plastic D was the second most flexible because it stretched an average of 20mm, while plastic C was the third most flexible plastic because it stretched an average of 13.5mm. Lastly, plastic A stretched the least with an average of Mumm. However, these results are not valid. In order to make them valid, the students would need to use plastics that are the same length; and use the same weight to stretch. This would ensure valid results, because it would be guaranteed the same size plastic was being pulled with the same forces.
3962	2	3	2	?	A) My conclusion would be that plastic B stretched the most because it had the farthest length's both times.   B) They should have put weights to make the weight even on the other side. They should've also done more trials on the other types of wrap.
3963	2	2	2	?	3. a) Plastic type B stretched out the most between the two trials with plastic type D coming on close.   b. The students could've made a third trial to be more valid and or allow the weights to hang more than 5 min instead, it could've been 10 min.
3964	2	1	1	?	a) According to this investigation, the shorter the plastic is the more it will stretch.   The experiment is not very valid due to the following: we are not aware of what each plastic type is. Also more trials should have been done so you could have more of a comparison between each trial. Two trials is not enough.
3965	2	0	0	?	Two ways could have been improved is by doing group and they needed a hypothesis to know wether their question was right or wrong s conclusion is the plastic type A and D there used because they might have putten more weights on different types for the second trial.
3966	2	2	2	?	A conclusion about this students data is plastic type B stretched the most. Two ways the student could have improved the design or validity of results is they should have said if the weights had to be the same mass. They could have also told the type of tape to use because some tapes hold up more heavier things than other types do.
3967	2	1	1	?	3. a) Plastic A and C have very similar inatups based on the amount they stretched, and likewise with plastic B and D.   b) The entire procedure is vague and contains no actual numbers. One way they could have improved would be if, they specified the amount of weight they used to get this results they got; And the way , just to help the people trying to reperform this experiment this experiment would, would be to specify which platics are done at which time.
3968	2	2	2	?	In conclusion to plastic that had the most stretchability was plastic A. It is the most flexible because the changed the most from trial 1to trial 2. It changed by Ma. The student could have improved on there experiment by adding more trials to. Increase validity and compare the plastic from before the weights were put on. We don't know the length of the plastic at first or how much weight they used.
3969	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic B-D on the second trial had the most stretch, than the other plastic A-C.   b) By doing it 3 times instead of 2.(trial) and showing the difference for example B on the the second trial stretched more than D by 3.
3970	2	2	2	?	a) A conclusion that I can draw from the students data is that plastic type B stretched the most and plastic type A stretched the least.   b) Two ways the students could have improved their experimental design is one, they should have stated what four types of plastic they were using. Secondly, they should have said the amount of weights they put on the clamp.
3971	2	2	2	?	A. In conclusion plastic B was the one who stretch the farthest in both trial.   B. Could have had 3 trials. Also could have under control.
3972	2	2	2	?	a. Plastic Type  B stretched the most and plastic Type A stretched the least.   b.) The student could have tested each type of plastic for several different times. He also could have done more trials with each type of plastic.
3973	2	3	3	?	According to the results shown on the table I can conclude that the plastic type B is the most stretchable. Type B stretched the most at 23 mm. Type D stretched 20mm while type C stretched Mumm. Type A only stretched 12 mm. There are many ways that the group could have improved their design. One thing the could have shown is the initial length of the plastic. Also the group could have shown how much weight they added to the clamps. This would allow me to reproduce their experiment and compare results.
3974	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic B was definitely the most stretchy and of all the plastics.   B) He could have recorded how much the plastic stretched at certain intervals of time, maybe every minute. he also could have tested both plastics each to back. The same way twice in 3 trials.
3975	2	1	1	?	a: Plastic type B had the most stretchability.   To improve the valedity of the results the students could have measured the plastic 2 times on each trial.
3976	2	2	2	?	As the type of plastic changed from type A all the way to type D, the amount of stretch increased from 10mm to 23mm.   They could increase the amount of trials and make all plastics starting length the same.
3977	2	3	3	?	a) In conclusion, plastic type B was stretched the farthest for both trials, and plastic type A had the least amount of stretching.   b) The students could have improved their experiment's by adding more trials and tell us the specific amount of weight used for each plastic.
3978	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data, plastic type D has the most reachability. To validate the results, the students could have done a third trial and averaged the three lengths for each plastic. They could have also specified how much weight was added and keep that consistane.
3979	2	0	0	?	Two ways that the student could have improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results, the first would be to figure out what kind of plastic and then write it down on the date table. The second way would be to write down the average of the T1 and T2. A conclusion based on the student's data is which plastic stretched the most.
3980	2	3	3	?	a. Overall plastic type b had the most stretchability amongst all of them.  b.1  done more trials to compare with results. b2 check lengths and other measurements to see if they are correct.
3981	2	3	2	?	This polymer investigating lacks numerical data. I can lab make a solid conclusion.   The students can improve the late by saying the original length of the plastic and the ending length. They can also say how much weight they are using and what plastics they are using.
3982	2	2	3	?	The student did a good job conducting this experiment. There was an indecent variable, the type of plastic, and there were multiple trials. The weakest plastic was B, because it stretched the most, and the strongest was A, because it stretched the least.  One way the student could have improved this experiment would be by using the same amount of weight that was stretching the plastic. Another way could be by drawing a line on the plastic so they would measure it in the same spot, start and end.
3983	2	2	3	?	a) In conclusion, it clear to see by looking at the data that plastic type B has the most stretchability.  b) The students could have improved the experiment design and validity of the results if they would state that they used the same types of weights for each plastic. In addition, they should have documented the length of type of plastic before beginning the procedure.
3984	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic type a had the highest stretchability, while plastic type D had the lowest stretchability.   b) 1. Say the exact measure of the plastic sample (in step 1) to make them all the same so that the starting mm of the plastic would be a constant.   2. Have a control group, one piece of plastic that did not have a clump on the bottom edge.
3985	2	2	2	?	The conclusion would be that type B plastic streched the most for both trial one and two. Type D made no change, it streched the same amount for both trials. One way they could have fix their experiment was record what the length of the plastic was before the strech and the change of it. Another one was to explain the different types of plastics were.
3986	2	2	2	?	(A) Plastic type B shows the most stretchability because T2 it stretched 22 and T2 it stretched 23. Plastic type D stretched 20mm in T1and T2. Plastic type C went from Mumm in T1 to 13mm in T2. Lastly, plastic A went from Mumm in T1 to 10mm in T2. This shows that plastic B is the most stretchable.   (B) The students could have shown the initial weigh of the materials and should have had the material on start of the same length.
3987	2	2	2	?	Based on the student's data I can conclude that plastic type B was the most stretchable.   A way that the student could have improved the experiment is by doing 3 or 4 trials instead of 2. Also, by letting the plastics hang for 5 minutes, but also 10 minutes.
3988	2	0	0	?	From the data of this lab, I can infer that in the second trial plastic types A and B both stretched farther than they did in the first trial. And type C didn't stretch as much as if did in the first trial, and type D stretched evenly with what it stretched the first trial. Two ways they could have made this procedure better is by doing the experiment on the same surface, and by having the same person conducting the experiment in both trials.
3989	2	2	2	?	The polymer that has the most stretchability was plastic type B with 22 mm for the first trail and 23 for the second. Plastic type A had10 and 12, type C had 14 and 13, type D had 20 and 20. One way the students could of improved their experiment was to do threa trails.
3990	2	1	1	?	Overall, plastic type a stretched the most. Therefore, it must be weaker than the others. One way this experiment could be improved is saying repeat experiment for plastics B, C, and D. They did not mention other plastics. Another way their experiment could be improved is that the students could add another trial to prove their results correct.
3991	2	2	1	?	A conclusion I can draw for the stretchability for polymer plastics is that for plastic type B the stretchability must be real stretchy because for the T1 it was 22mm and for T2 it was 23mm. But for type C it stretchability went down, T1 Mumm and T2 13mm.   The students could of improved the design by adding a T3. Also they could of used more than just four different types of plastics.
3992	2	1	0	?	That each plastic bag does strean a little bitt. why he could of improved is how much weight he put on it. He could sisal use differnt type of clamps. One last thing he could of changed is how light he hung the bags from the floor.
3993	2	0	0	?	Based on the student's data, plastic tube "D" stretched the most, for T1 and T2 both trys was the same number 20. Plast type A for T1 and T2 has the loess stretch amount.
3994	2	1	1	?	A) Mt conclusion based on the students data is that plastic B had the more affect for its stretchability. Plastic A had the least stretchability when it comes to the weights of clamps on top of the bag.   B) Two ways the students could have improved their experiment is by including what types of plastic and how long do we leave the weights on top of plastic.
3995	2	3	2	?	Based on the students data,Plastic A was streched the least at an average of Mumm. Plastic B streched the least at an average of 27.5m. After that came a plastic D with 20mm followed by plastic C at 13.5mm. The student could have improved the experimental design and its validity by doing a 3rd trial also the student could have stated whether or not the plastics started off at a constant length for all u.
3996	2	1	1	?	They could of repeat all the steps over.
3997	2	3	3	?	A conclusion that can be drawn based on the students data is plastic type B is more stretchable than the others because in T1 it stretched 22mm and T2 it stretched 23. The other 3 plastics didnt stretch as far as plastic B. Two ways the students could've improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results is did a third trial, and measure how far the plastic was on the edge of the table.
3998	2	3	3	?	A. In conclusion the plastic that stretched the most was plastic type B at 22 and 23mm. The plastic that stretched the least was plastic type A at 10 and 12mm.   B. One way to improve this experiment is to add constants like, how many weights and how much do they weigh. Also they should do another trial and then average out the results.
3999	2	2	2	?	a) In Conclusion, plastic type B is a better polymer plastic for stretchability: due to the fact that the first trial is stretched 22mm and the second trial it stretched 23mm. The polymer plastic that stretched the least was plastic type A. The first trial is stretched 10mm and the second trail it stretched 12mm.  b) One way they could have improved this experimental design would be, by adding a certain ammount of weight. And another way they could improve it and prove its valid would be with a control.
4000	2	3	3	?	Based on the student results, I can conclude that plastic type B is the most stretchable. In the data, plastic type B stretched to 22 mm on T1, and 23mm in T2. None of the other plastics had stretched as much. Then ways to improve this experiment is to add another trial and average the data. Also the student needed to tell exactly how much weight he clamped to the plastics.
4001	2	2	2	?	a) A conclusion that can be drawn from this experiment is that plastic type B has the most stretchability. b) 2 ways the student could have improved the experimental design is by including how much weight to put on the clamps and the types of plastics used.
4002	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type A, stretches longer than all other types, in other words it has more stretchability. Types B and C have the same stretchability, and D has the least stretchability, had the least durability, keeping it's structure while the others did not.   b)1) Made all the types start out in the same length. 2) specified the amount of weight that was applied, 3) Recorded the length of the sample before stretching it.
4003	2	2	2	?	Based on the students data some of the plastic stretched, some stayed the same and one of them even got smaller. One way they could have improved there experiment is have the plastic all the same size. Another way they could improve this is by saying how much weight they put on and keep the weight the same for all.
4004	2	3	3	?	a) Based on the student's data, plastic type A is the least stretchable, while plastic type B is the most stretchable. Plastic types B and C fall in the middle of these two in terms of stretchability; B was more stretchable than C.   b) One way the student could have improved the experiment would be cutting all of the samples to uniform lengths and widths, rather than simply measuring what their length already was. The student also could have specified how much weight was being added to each sample.
4005	2	1	1	?	a) Plastic type D seems to be more accurate of stretchability because after both trials T1 and T2 the amount stretched is the same at 20 mm.   b) One the experiment could be proved is to repeat the experiment. A second way is to make an hypothesis before starting the experiment.
4006	2	1	1	?	A=is not much of diference of T1 to T2 is only 1 or 2 mm so is really acuret. B= they shouted have more plastic type and more trials.
4007	2	2	2	?	a. A conclusion that can be made is that they used plastic B, then plastic B will stretch the most.  b.More trials and use more plastic types.
4008	2	2	2	?	The conclusion I draw to this investigation is plastic type B as the most stretchability compared to all the others and plastic A as the least stretchability.   Two ways the student could've improved this experiment would be a clearing with the for example how much weight and also mention what type of materials needed to conduct this experiment.
4010	2	0	0	?	The conclusion it draws from this is that they.
4011	2	1	1	?	Plastic type B was the stretchiest plastic type. It listatcched a total of 45 mm plastic type D was second it stretched  a total of 40 mm plastic C was the 3rd stretchiest it stretched a total of 27 mm and plastic A was the least stretched it stretched a total of 22 mm.
4012	2	2	1	?	Conclusion: The stretchability of a type plastic is dependent on what type of polymer it is. Plastic A and B were clearly strong than plastic C and D most likely they were made of very different polymers.   The students could have improved their design by specifying the weight and using the same weight and clamps every time. This would ensure more precision.
4013	2	3	3	?	A) A conclusion I can draw by looking at the student's data is that the type B plastic stretched the most after the two trials.   B) The two ways these student could have improved their was by added more trial. Also they should have established a starting length of the plastic.
4014	2	2	3	?	A) In conclusion, plastic B was the most stretchable at an average of 2200mm, while plastic A was the least stretchable at an average of Mumm.   B) The student could have known the weight of the clamps, and add that on to the amount of weight added. Also, they could have made sure all the weight in the clamp were the same for each plastic.
4015	2	2	2	?	a)Plastic type B stretched most, D second most, C third most, and A stretched the least making B the most stretchable and A the least. b) One way to improve the experimental design and or or validity is to tell which types of plastics they used another is to tell how much weight they added in the clamp.
4016	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B was the weakest and stretches the most, a way to improve the experiment would be to designate what each type of plastic is and how much weight to use on the clamp.
4017	2	2	2	?	A) After reviewing the data I have figured out that plastic type B for both trials 1,2 the plastic stretched the longest. Trial 1= 22mm trial 2= 23mm, plastic type B is the least change. B) 2 ways they could of improved there experiment is do a control with all plastic types with the same weight for all of them. Also they could of hangeach plastic for different lengths of time do 2 trials one of 5mins 1 of 10.
4018	2	1	0	?	Based on the students data after putting the weights over clamps the amount of stretchability decreased and the difference the between the trials went down one by one. Students could of improved the experimental design by weighing the weights and calculating how much pressure would be on the clamps. They also could of said the specific plastic samples they were using.
4019	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the data show plastic type B was the stretchiest material and plastic type a is the least. b) In there data table they could have given how much weight was appiyed the the material. In the procedure the students could have been more specific on the unite used and elaborated more on performing the procedure to make it easier for the next person to use it and under stand.
4020	2	1	1	?	A) On the trial A,B,C and D stretched quiet long and plastic B is the most longest so plastic B is the best from all. On the second trial, the result is not a lot difference from the first trial, plastic A,B and C stretched 1.2 mm more and plastic D still the same. B) Students should put the original measurement for all the plastics and put in the data table. The students should leave the weights on the clamp to hang there longer than 5 minutes to see if those plastics could stretched even more.
4021	2	0	0	?	The students sould had said what type of plastic they used and if they were the same, and say what was the main reason for us to no how much a the plastic streched.
4022	2	3	3	?	(a) A conclusion that could be drawn based on the students data is that plastic type B can stretch the most with T1 being 22mm and T2 being 23. And plastic type A stretching the shortest with T1 at 10mm and T2 at 23mm.   (b) The student should have made sure that all plastics strips are the same length and the student should have tape all the steps in the same spot.
4023	2	3	3	?	Plastic type B stretched the longest out of plastic A, C, and D. On the first try streching 22mm and the second time streching 23mm. To make the experiment better the student should have done the experiment a couple more times because plastic type D streched 20mm both times. The second way he or she could make it better is by telling how much weight he added on the clamp.
4024	2	3	3	?	a.) According to the student's results, type B plastic was longer in length and stretchable. Plastic A seemed to be the least stretchable butonly at a length of 10-12 mm.   b.) The student could have been to say how much weight to put in the clamp so it could be a constant variable. Also, the student could have put the initial length of the plastic with the results to see which plastic had stretched the most.
4025	2	1	1	?	a. After time the maximum stretch of a palmer goes down and becomes stronger.   b. He could of made the laties longer of tell how much waits you were adding.
4026	2	3	3	?	A. Based on the finding the stretchiest plastic is type B, stretching 22mm in T1 and 12mm in T2. The least stretchy would be type A, stretching 10mm in T1 and 12 in T2.   B. 1. They needed to specify the size of the plastic samples ( for example 3in*5in). If they weren't all the same size the results would be inaccurate. 2. They also needed to specify the weight without it, one sample could stretch more having 10 pounds on it, than on sample with only 2 porkers on it.
4027	2	3	3	?	In conclusion, plastic type B had stretched the farthest. The two types were both pretty constant with ie newl have menis. A way this student could have improved this was by telling us how what the original measurement the plastic type was. Therefore we could see how much it's stretched. I think these types could have done another trial to make the experiment a little more valid.
4028	2	1	1	?	a) I conclude that the it plastics tested showed some increased in length when stretched.I believe that the plastics way that they were stretched increased in length over to me that what I found in this experiment.  b) I believe they should have identify the different plastics.I also believe that they should of said how much weight the plastic was holding and many. That what should of been added.
4029	2	2	2	?	With the data recorded. I know that plastic type B is the most it stretchable of the  four plastics type I tested.   It would of been wise to state what the plastics were for and how much the weight's weighed.
4030	2	0	0	?	The student is conclusion is A student performed the following investigation to test four different polymer plastics for stretchability and the two ways the student could is the student not talk procedure polymer and attach a clean to the bottom edge on the plastic sample.
4031	2	0	0	?	In conclusion in the 1st trial all of the plastics here higher. In the second trial plastic A increased by Ma, plastic B increased by Ma, plastic C increased by Ma, and plastic D stayed the same. I believe the amount of plastic stretched in the second trial depends on the type of plastic.
4032	2	2	3	?	a) Plastic type B was the most stretchable plastic used because it was stretched longer than any other plastic in both trials. Plastic  type A had the least stretchability with 10mm for the first trial and 12mm for the second.   The student could have improved his or her experiment by keeping these two variables constant would make the experiment very reliable.
4033	2	0	0	?	In the second trial, the length for plastic A and B went up. For plastic C the longer length was 14 in the first trail. But in plastic D, the amount stretched stood exactly the same. Two ways the student could have improve this experimental design is drawing a line graph and give the data table a little more details.
4034	2	2	2	?	a) Based on the students data I've concluded that plastic B was the stretched plastic.   b) The student could have improved the design by adding a control group, and adding more trials.
4035	2	2	1	?	In conclusion, plastic type D stretched the most out of the samples. Plastic A, on the other hand, was the least stretchable.  The student could've specified the types of plastics they were testing. They also should have specified the amount of weight they were adding to the clamp. They didn't say how to measure the length of the plastic types.
4036	2	1	2	?	Based on the students data I can conclude plastic type B was the stretchiest polymer. The students could have improved there experimental design by telling us the type of polymer plastics they used, and they should have indicated in the graph how much weight was used on each type of polymer to stretch it out.
4037	2	2	2	?	Overall plastic A is the most durable. Plastic B was the weakest in both tests. They could have improved their experiment by having there trials for more data. They could have added more weight in the second trial.
4038	2	0	1	?	The conclusion im donna draw based on the students data is that there amount of stretched (mm) could go up if they keep investigating. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and  or or validity of the results is that first take a sample of one type of plastic and measure its length. And second repeat the procedure exactly for the remaining three plastic samples.
4039	2	2	2	?	The amount that plastic type A stretched was 10mm on the first trial and 12mm on the second trial. Plastic type B stretched 22mm, then 23mm the second time. Plastic type C stretched Mumm first and 13mm second. Plastic type D stretched 20mm both times. To improve this lab they could have made one more trial and averaged the 3 results. They could also specify on the weights they were using to make the results more interesting.
4040	2	3	3	?	(a) Based on the students data, I can conclude that plastic type A stretched the least. It is the strongest of the four, because it only stretched an average of Mumm (averaged from the two trials), while B's average stretch was 22.5mm C's average stretch was 13.5, and C's average was 20mm. (b). They should have specified the amount of weight. They should have specified the size and shape of the plastic.
4041	2	3	3	?	a. Plastic type B stretched the most with 22-23 mm, and plastic type A stretched the least with 10-12 mm.   b. Two ways they could have improved the experimental design is by having all of the plastics being the same length in the beginning and adding a certain amount of weights not just saying "add weights".
4042	2	0	0	?	The student could of improved their experiment by luting it stretched a little longer or add another clamp to the plastic sample.
4043	2	2	2	?	A) I can conclude that this experiment was not valid. This student only had two trials instead of three.   B) This project could have been valid if the student had three trials and if they had kept their controlled group constant.
4044	2	2	2	?	a) Plastic type B stretched the most because it stretched an average of 22.5 mm. Plastic type A stretched the least because it stretched an average of Mumm. Plastic type C and D are in the midle.   b) Add weights to the clamp before they put it on the plastic. Specify exactly where the clamp should be placed on the plastic.
4045	2	1	1	?	(A) A conclusion based on the student's data is plastic type A produced the most amount of stretching from trial 1 to trial 2 (10mm to 12mm) compared to all the other plastic types. However, plastic type D remain the same and on one of the plastic types C, the amount it stretched decrease from 14 to 13.   (B) Two ways the student could have improved the experimental design of the result are instead of using one type of plastic, they should have used various types to broad the results. Also the student could have done more trials.
4046	2	3	2	?	a) Based on the students data, I conclude that plastic type A was the least stretched out and that plastic type B was the most.   b) Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and or or validity of the results is by one, keeping the amount of weight added to each type of plastic constant and two, making sure that the weight of the clamp was subtracted.
4047	2	0	0	?	Plastic type A was the only type of plastic that stretched the most. The student could of improved the experiment design by having two measuring devices. Also, they could of used heavier weights.
4048	2	1	1	?	The students could have impared the experiment by doing the amount many times to check if it was accurate.
4049	2	1	2	?	A . A conclusion based on the students data is that the stronger the plastic that they use is the harder it is to stretch . For example sample A and C must be thicker because it stretched less.   B, Two ways the students could have improved the experiment was by actually putting the same amount of weight on each and by saying the names.
4050	2	2	2	?	Polymer B is the most stretchable plastic.   The improve the experiment, the student could have massed the weight used in step 4 to use the same amount of weight to the plastics in the second trial than the first trial.
4051	2	3	2	?	Based on the students data results, plastic type D stretched the most. Plastic type A stretched the least. Two ways the students could have improved the experimental design and validity of the results are that they should of measured how long each piece of plastic was before they added the weights so they can know how much the plastic stretched. Also they should of used the same amount of weights.
4052	2	1	1	?	a) According to my results plastic type B had the greatest amount stretched with 22mm in trial one and in trial 2 with 23mm. I would rely on plastic type B to hold my things.   B) 1-st way the student's could have made theirs results validity better one instead of putting plastic type A B C D they should have labeled them by what plastic they were. 2-nd the students should have seen how far the plastic could stretch before breaking.
4053	2	3	3	?	a) In conclusion plastic type B had stretched the most in both trial one and trial two. Plastic type A had stretched the least amount in both trials.   b) The students could have added how many weights they put on the plastic, and how much each weight weighed. They should have added how long the plastic was before it was stretched.
4054	2	3	3	?	Conclusively  plastic type B tested to stretch the longest length compared to the other three samples.   1. There is no control in the starting length of the plastics. Different sizes of samples can invalidate the experiments results.   2. The amount of weight attached to the clump should be held constant. Plastic type B, which stretched the longest, could have had more weight on it than the others.
4055	2	3	3	?	A conclusion on could draw is that plastic type B has the most stretchability. A student could improve the design and results by adding more trials, and specifying how much weight should be added. These two suggestions would durastialy improve the validity of the results as well as improve the design.
4056	2	0	0	?	a) Based on the data plastic A-C shows a decrease of 1 or 2 (mm) of stretch. Plastic "D" is a reasonable plastic to be used as stretchability.   There's no need for improvement for the experiment design or results.
4057	2	1	1	?	Based on the students data plastic type A and B in trial 2 did better than trial 1, but C, D of trial did better than trial 2. One way the student could have improved the experimental design or validity of the results was to measure how can the table was that the weigh were hanging off the plastic with. Another way the could've done better was to test the trial again to see more results.
4058	2	0	0	?	b) We need material they are plastic, tape clamp it shows that it was the lab of polymer plastics.  Hypothesis if we attach a clamp to the bottom edge of the plastic sample then1 weights to the clamp and allow them to hang for five minutes and remove the weight measure the length of the plastic because repeat the procedure exactly for the remaining three plastics.
4059	2	3	2	?	Plastic type B was the most stretchable. It stretched on average 22.5 mm while the others did not stretch past 20 mm. The student could have improved the experiment as design by including the averages and using 3 trials instead of one. Also if one made all the plastics the same length. One could accurately determine which was the most stretchable.
4060	2	1	1	?	a.) After testing this experiment, the results show that plastic sample D stretched the most (mm), making it the weakest plastic. Plastic type A appeared to have streched the least amount of mm, making it the strongest plastic. b) The students could have made this experiment more valid by adding a controlled group. They could have also done a trial in order to increase the validity of their experiment.
4061	2	3	3	?	a) We can conclude that plastic B is the most stretchable from all the types, but the lab is not valid because judging by the results the lab was not done the same for each trial.  b. Two way to improve this lab are: Have s or third trials at least, state the weight of the product used to put on the plastic materia.
4062	2	2	2	?	a. One conclusion I have fro this data was that plastic "D" was the weakest and stretched the most.   b. One way they could have improved this experiment is to make sure all sample sizes are the same length, and making a change if they agent. Another way is by specifiying how much weight to add to the clamp at the bottom of the ample.
4063	2	0	0	?	3. The second trial(12) is not exactly the same as the first trial(11) cause in the second trial even 1 type plastic goes up but on stays the same. They could of improved the experiment design by make sure every thing is in order, make sure to every type of plastic samples you do the same to it.
4064	2	2	2	?	A) I have concluded that based on the students data that plastic type stretched the most amount of millimeters and plastic type A stretched the least amount of millimeters.   B) Two ways the experimental design could have been improved are that a control should have been added to that experimental off at and include how much weight was added to the clamp.
4065	2	2	2	?	Plastic type B stretchable most 22mm in T1 and 23mm in T2. Plastic A stretched the least at only 10mm T1 and 12 mm T2. This experiment isn't exactly valid however because stretching the material 2 times usually makes it stretchier the second trial. Hence, the mm stretched in T2 was usually greater for all 4 plastics. Instead, you should have 2 of each plastic to unsure validity. Also, they could have had a trial 3 to see the results came at the same.
