Data Set #10
Type of response:Source Dependent ResponseGrade level:8Subject:ScienceTraining set size:1640Final evaluation set size:548Average length of responses:60 wordsScoring:Score1, Score2Final score:Final score is score 1. Score 2 is for inter-rater reliability purposes.Rubric range:0-2Prompt-Doghouse Item
Brandi and Jerry did the following controlled experiment to find out how the color of an object affects its temperature.

Question: What is the effect of different lid colors on the air temperature inside a glass jar exposed to a lamp?

Hypothesis: The darker the lid color, the greater the increase in air temperature in the glass jar, because darker colors absorb more energy.

Materials:
glass jar
lamp
four colored lids: black, dark gray, light gray, and white
thermometer
meterstick
stopwatch

Controlled Experiment Setup

Procedure:
1. Put the black lid with the attached thermometer on the glass jar.
2. Make sure the starting temperature inside the jar is 24° C.
3. Place lamp 5 centimeters away from the lid and turn on the lamp.
4. After 10 minutes measure the air temperature inside the glass jar and record as Trial 1.
5. Turn off lamp and wait until the air in the jar returns to the starting temperature.
6. Repeat steps 2 through 5 for Trials 2 and 3.
7. Repeat steps 1 through 6 for the dark gray, light gray, and white lids.
8. Calculate and record the average air temperature for each lid color.

Data: 

Brandi and Jerry were designing a doghouse. Use the results from the experiment to describe the best paint color for the doghouse.

In your description, be sure to:
* Choose a paint color. 
* Describe how that color might affect the inside of the doghouse.
* Use results from the experiment to support your description.

Choose a color:
o Blacko Dark grayo Light grayo WhiteRubric for Doghouse
2 points
A 2-point response demonstrates the student understands the Content Standard APPE: Scientists and engineers often work together to generate creative solutions to problems and decide which ones are most promising. Item Specification 2: Describe a reason for choosing a solution given possible solution(s) and a problem that can be solved using a technological design process.

The response uses the results from the experiment to describe the best paint color for the doghouse by choosing a color and:
* Describing how that color might affect the inside of the doghouse
       --AND--
* Using results from the experiment to support the description. 

Examples:

Choose a colorDescribes how that color might affect the inside of the doghouseUses results from the experimentBlackThe doghouse will be warmer.The black lid made the jar warmest.Dark grayThe inside will be a little warmer, but not too hot.The dark gray lid increased 6º C more than the white.Light gray	The inside will stay cooler, but not too cool.The light gray lid was 8º C cooler than the black.WhiteThe inside will be cooler.The white lid only went up to 42º C.1 point
A 1-point response demonstrates the student has partial understanding of the Content Standard.
The response chooses a color and describes how that color might affect the inside of the doghouse BUT the results from the experiment are missing 
--OR--
The response chooses a color and includes results from the experiment BUT the description of how that color might affect the inside of the doghouse is missing.
0 points
A 0-point response demonstrates the student has little or no understanding of the Content Standard.
1


